Medically Significant
A medical doctor reported that a 57 year old female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple Sclerosis 
from 16 Oct 2009 to 05 Mar 2014 experienced possible PML characterized by left hemiparesis (onset unknown, 
noted to have experienced left hemiparesis for a couple of months).  At the time of this report, the TOUCH 
database indicated the patient had received a total of 58 infusions from 16 Oct 2009 to 05 Mar 2014.  The patient 
tested positive for JCV antibodies in Mar 2012.  Prior therapy included Avonex (interferon beta-1a) and it was 
unknown if the patient received prior immunosuppression.  The event of possible PML characterized by left 
hemiparesis is ongoing. The causality for the event of possible PML characterized by left hemiparesis is unknown.
It is unknown if TYSABRI treatment is ongoing.
Update 10 Mar 2014: Follow-up information was received from the physician.  The patient had not received any 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 431 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
prior immunosuppression.  The patient did well on TYSABRI and the only new onset symptom was the left 
hemiparesis.  This prompted an MRI which showed a new lesion in the basal ganglia.  The MRI was compared to 
previous study in Dec 2013 and the physician noted the lesion was may have been present at the time but was 
probably really small.  The patient was noted to have been asymptomatic in Dec 2013.  The patient underwent 
lumbar puncture (10 Mar 2014) and results are pending.  The physician plans to start PLEX as outpatient as 
treatment.
Update 19 Mar 2014: Follow-up information was received from a nurse at the physician's office including previous 
and recent MRI results and recent CSF results.  MRI of the brain was performed on 07 Mar 2013.  The impression 
noted that the findings are typical of an aggressive primary demyelinating condition of the cerebral white matter.
This certainly could represent advanced multiple sclerosis as was suggested on the previous examination.
However, findings could also be consistent with conditions such as progressive multi-focal leukoencephalopathy as 
suggested by the clinical history.  Without the availability of the original images, unable to determine if there has 
been progression from the previous examination.  MRI of the brain on 30 Dec 2013 noted that there continues to be
a diffuse and nearly symmetric pattern of white matter signal change involving the supratentorial brain substance.
The lesions demonstrate no enhancement and have not changed from the previous exam.  They are best 
explained by advanced Multiple Sclerosis.  Progressive multi-focal leukoencephalopathy (PML) which was under 
consideration at the time of previous imaging now seems highly unlikely given the lack of interval progression as 
well as the lack of brain stem or basal ganglia involvement.  In addition, PML is usually asymmetric and focally 
confluent, findings that are likewise not present in this case.  The most recent MRI of the brain completed on 07 
Mar 2014 showed confluent T2 signal abnormality centered within the right basal ganglia and posterior limb of the 
right internal capsule extending to the right cerebral peduncle.  This is associated with restrictive diffusion.  No 
associated enhancement.  This area has enlarged compared to prior study of 30 Dec 2013.  Findings are highly 
suspicious for PML.  JCV DNA PCR testing of CSF sample from 10 Mar 2014 showed 461 copies/ml (reference 
range <50 copies/ml).  The patient clinically deteriorated on(b) (6)  and as admitted to the hospital.  She 
developed worsening weakness on the left side, drooling, bladder dysfunction, and cognitive decline. High dose IV 
corticosteroids were initiated.  A repeat MRI performed on (b) (6)  showed an enlargement of the suspected 
PML lesions (report not yet available).
Update 21 Mar 2014: During an outbound call to the physician's office, a registered nurse reported the patient 
remains hospitalized and will be inpatient for several more days, but is stable.
Update 26 Mar 2014: Follow-up information received from a nurse at the physician's office included chart notes for 
the patient.  On 10 Jul 2013, during a house call, the patient had no complaints and was doing well, she was able to
walk in tandem though felt insecure, had a negative Romberg, coordination of the upper extremities, mentation, and
speech were noted to be normal.  On 27 Dec 2013, the patient called the office to report being more unsteady on 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 432 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
her feet over the prior 2 weeks to 1 month.  There were no cognitive changes and speech was ok.  An MRI with and
without contrast were to be ordered.  On 20 Jan 2014, the patient called to report that the prednisone had not 
provided any improvement in her walking.  The patient was encouraged to walk as much as possible but it was 
noted that she may be entering a secondary progressive phase.  On 18 Feb 2014, the patient called to report that 
she felt her walking was less secure and her hand coordination was less good.  A recent MRI had shown no new 
lesions.  It was suspected that the patient was in a secondary progressive phase, but a second opinion would be 
gathered.  On 24 Feb 2014, the patient called to report she felt more unsteady and dropped some plates.  On 07 
Mar 2014, the patient was seen by a neurologist on an urgent basis.  The patient was experiencing increasing left 
sided weakness and clumsiness, had multiple recent falls, had been using a walker during the prior week, had 
episodes of urinary incontinence, brief double vision, difficulty swallowing, left facial weakness and drooling.  On 
examination, the neurologist ntoed mild left facial weakness, intact extraocular movements, mild slurring of speech,
no visual field defect, abnormal posture of the left hand compared to the right, mildly impaired finger tapping on the 
left side compared to the right, hyperactive tendon reflexes on both sides, extensor plantar responses, no definite 
lateralized sensory abnormality, slow unsteady gait without a walker, and negative Romberg sign.  The impression 
by the neurologist was that the cause of the progression of the left sided dysfunction was yet to be determined.  He 
presumed it represented either a progression of her MS or PML.  An MRI was requested to be obtained that day.
Update 27 Mar 2014: Biogen Idec considers this case to be confirmed for PML.
Update 16 Oct 2014: Follow-up information was received from the neurologist, via a TOUCH Prescribing Program 
Discontinuation Questionnaire, indicating that the patient expired from PML (date not provided).  Causality was 
assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 20 Oct 2014: Follow-up information was received from the neurologist. Prior to the patient's death, she had 
been on TYSABRI for more than 5 years and was JCV positive. PML was treated with maraviroc and steroids. The 
patient developed IRIS prior to her death. The family withdrew care before IV steroids. However, the patient had IV 
Solumedrol (methylprednisolone) early in the course of her demise as it was thought she had an attack of MS. The 
patient died in (b) (6)  (exact date not available), out of the hospital, at home. Death certificate was not available. 
The presumed cause of death was PML, MS.  Autopsy was not performed.
Update 06 Mar 2015: A report received from Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Manufacturer's Report 
#PUS2015US020249, indicates that a medical assistant reported that a female patient took TYSABRI, developed 
PML and passed away in 2014.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 433 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information