A neurologist spontaneously reported that a female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple Sclerosis 
from unknown date to unknown date was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to an unknown date for suspect PML 
(onset unknown) and massive deterioration of MS characterized by gait deterioration, language disorders, sensory 
disorder (onset unknown).  The physician reported that the massive deterioration started after the discontinuation of
TYSABRI.  The patient is JCV antibody positive (unknown date).  Testing included an MRI (unknown date) showing 
"MS typical lesions".  CSF testing for the presence of JCV DNA is planned to rule out PML.  Treatment included 
corticosteroids (NOS) since (b) (6)  for several days for the massive deterioration of MS characterized by gait 
deterioration, language disorders, sensory disorder The outcome for the events is unknown.  Causality for the 
events was assessed by the physician as unknown.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 458 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 17 Feb 2014:  A physician spontaneously reported that the testing of the patient's CSF for JCV DNA was 
negative.  An aliquot of the sample has been sent to (b) (6)   No further information provided.
Update 25 Feb 2014 and 27 Feb 2014:  Upon follow-up, a physician reported that the CSF sample, collected on (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  and sent to (b) (6) , was negative for JCV DNA (ultrasensitive quantitative real-time PCR).  No further 
information provided.
Update 01 Apr 2014:  A physician (different from other physicians) spontaneously reported that the patient had a 
new CSF JCV DNA test which was positive from a local lab.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued in Feb 2014.  The
patient had a history of MS relapses prior to starting TYSABRI and the reason for the most recent examination 
regarding PML was a severe MS relapse with corresponding MRI changes (presumed previously reported event of 
massive deterioration of MS).  The patient was currently hospitalized (presumed date of admission to be (b) (6)  
(b) (6) ).  No further information provided.
Update 02 Apr 2014:  The physician spontaneously reported that TYSABRI was discontinued in Dec 2013, not Feb 
2014.  The patient was on TYSABRI for five years starting in May 2008, and experienced no MS relapses while on 
TYSABRI.   Prior MS therapy included Rebif (interferon beta-1a).  At the time of admission into the hospital in (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  the patient was dependent on a wheelchair. Since then, the patient had clinical improvement and now [(b)(6)  
(b) (6) ] uses a rollator.  Concomitant medications included mirtazapine for sleep disorder.  An MRI [date unknown 
but was performed prior to the (b) (6)  admission] showed large confluent lesions, but did not show MS nor PML-
typical changes.  Plasmpaheresis therapy was not performed.  The patient received corticosteroids (NOS) 
(previously reported).  The physician does not believe it is IRIS.  Additionally, the patient tested cytomegalovirus - 
seropositive proof and CSF CMV PCR negative.  No further information provided.
Update 03 and 04 Apr 2014:  Follow-up from the physician spontaneously reported that the patient experienced 
massive clinical and radiological deterioration.  An MRI [presumed done in (b) (6)  during the hospitalization] 
showed occipital, confluent lesions: brainstem and cerebellum, and were sent to another physician for a second 
review.  TYSABRI serum level is planned to be determined for the decision to use PLEX therapy or not.  The 
physician assessed that this is a suspect PML case, but other possible causes of the deterioration to be either IRIS,
a recurrence of the originally highly active RRMS (presumed previously reported event of massive deterioration of 
MS), or an infection caused by another opportunistic pathogen.  The MRI images are sent to another physician for a
second opinion/review. An aliquot of the CSF was sent to(b) (6)  results pending. Causality was not assessed by 
the physician.  No further information provided.
Update 07 and 08 Apr 2014:  A physician spontaneously reported that an aliquot from the first and second CSF 
sample was sent to (b) (6)  for testing.  The first CSF sample was negative, and the second CSF sample was a weak 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 459 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
positive with approximately 100 copies/mL.  A third CSF sample was performed (date unknown) per a request from 
a physician, and the outcome is pending.  No further information provided.
Update 10 Apr 2014:  Follow-up from a physician reported that based on the assessment of the MRI from 03 Apr 
2014 (presumed previously reported MRI), the suspicion for PML is remaining, and it could indicate an initial PML-
IRIS. The physician also noted that the clinical symptoms are typical for MS, but development of MRI is untypical for
MS.  The patient's second lumbar puncture was performed on 28 Mar 2014 and third lumbar puncture was (b) (6)  
(b) (6)   Test results performed at a local lab for the third lumbar puncture were negative for CSF JCV DNA.  Results 
from (b) (6)  lab for the second and third lumbar puncture have not yet arrived.  Treatment included mirtazapine, 
corticosteroids (NOS), (previously reported) and mefloquine.  Since administration of the corticosteroids the patient 
has had clinical improvement and reduction of the amount of Gd+ enhancements on MRI.  No further information 
provided.
Update 16 Apr 2014:  Upon follow-up from the treating physician, the physician reported that the patient was 
clinically stabilized and that the improvement of clinical symptoms occurred due to administration of high dose 
corticosteroids (NOS).  The results of the CSF testing from the second and third CSF sample sent to (b) (6)  are still 
pending, and therefore PML is still being considered.  No further information provided.
Update 17 Apr 2014:  Follow-up information was received from the treating physician.  The physician spontaneously
reported that the result of the second CSF sample sent to (b) (6)  Lab was low positive (100 copies/mL), and the result
from the third CSF sample is pending.  No further information provided.
Update 22 Apr 2014:  Follow-up information was received from the treating physician.  The physician spontaneously
reported that the result of the third CSF sample was positive, below 100 copies/mL, which is a significant decline in 
number of copies compared to sample 2.  The patient is clinically doing well and neurological symptoms are in 
regression, however suspicion of PML and IRIS is ongoing.  The last MRI (unknown date) showed stable or slightly 
regressive finding of brain stem lesions.  A fourth CSF JCV sample is planned in about a week.  No further 
information provided.
Update 01 May 2014:  Upon internal review, this case is confirmed for PML.  No further information provided.
Update 07 May 2014:  Follow-up information was received by the physician.  The physician spontaneously reported 
that a JCV DNA sample was tested at a local lab (unknown date) and JCV DNA could not be identified.  The 
sample was shipped to(b) (6)  for additional testing.  No further information provided. 
Update 08 May 2014:  Additional information was provided by the treating physician.  The physician confirmed the 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 460 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
final diagnosis was PML, inclusive of PML-IRIS.  It is unknown if the index values for JCV antibodies are available.
The course of PML was reported as "mild".  The patient had quick improvement of PML-IRIS following 
corticosteroid treatment.  The patient is able to walk freely and oculomotor problems have improved.  The patient 
continued on a tapered dose of corticosteorids.  Previous MS therapy included glatiramer acetate and interferon-
therapy (presumed to be previously reported Rebif (interferon beta-1a).   The physician reported that he wanted to 
wait 3 months until the immune-reconstitution is finished before initiating any MS therapy, then probably initiate MS 
escalation -therapy (eventually Gilenya (fingolimod) or TECFIDERA (dimethyl fumarate), as "MS basic therapeutic" 
is probably not efficient due to the patient's history of massive MS relapses before TYSABRI use.  Causality for the 
events was not assessed.  No further information provided.
Update 15 May 2014: Additional information was received from the physician via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive and residing at home. The patient tested negative for HIV. The physician 
assessed the patient s estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores on Mar 2007 to be 80 (normal activity with effort; 
some signs or symptoms of disease) and 3.5; Karnofsky and EDSS scores on Nov 2007 to be 100 (normal no 
complaints; no evidence of disease) and 0.5; and Karnofsky and EDSS scores on(b) (6)  to be 50 (requires 
considerable assistance and frequent medical care) and 6.0. The patient's JCV DNA (not including CSF testing) 
results were positive on 12 Oct 2011 and positive on (b) (6)   The patient's serum anti-JCV Antibody status 
was positive on 12 Oct 2011 and positive on 19 Feb 2014. MRIs were performed on 03 Mar 2014 prior to PML 
diagnosis and on 26 Mar 2014 at the time of PML diagnosis; no results were reported.  The patient underwent a 
lumbar puncture on 28 Mar 2014 with results reported as positive for CSF JCV DNA at 101 copies per mL. The 
patient underwent a lumbar puncture on (b) (6)  with results reported as positive for CSF JCV DNA at 22 
copies per mL. The patient underwent a lumbar puncture on (b) (6)  with results reported as negative for CSF 
JCV. The patient has recovered from PML.  Causality for the PML was assessed as related to TYSABRI.  No 
further information provided.
Update 27 May 2014: Additional information was received from the physician. The physician reported that the 
patient is better and cortisone therapy is currently being slowly tapered.  According to the physician, continuation of 
MS therapy with TECFIDERA in this patient is being considered.  No further information was provided.
Update 18 Jun 2014: Additional information was received from the treating physician. The physician reported the 
patient is clinically stable and there was no dramatic deterioration after IRIS. No further details were provided.
Update 09 Jul 2014: Additional information was received from the physician.  CSF sample testing was performed 
(date unknown) and returned negative from local lab. The reporting physician mentioned that PML is assumed, 
differential diagnosis done for immune reconstitution syndrome (IRIS) because the symptoms have developed after
discontinuation of TYSABRI.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 461 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 29 Sep 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist. The patient was now set for a de-
escalation therapy with TECFIDERA. Titration was over 3 weeks (longer than recommended).  At the time of this 
report, the patient had been receiving 240 mg twice daily for just about 10 days.  No further information was 
provided.
Update 07 Oct 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive, residing at home, and is currently on Fumarsaure [sic] for MS therapy. The 
neurologist assessed the patient s estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores on 07 Oct 2014 to be 90 (able to carry 
on normal activity; minor signs or symptoms of disease) and 1.5. A brain MRI was performed on 30 May 2014 
(results not provided). The patient was diagnosed with IRIS based upon clinical symptoms and MRI findings. The 
onset date of the clinical symptoms was (b) (6)  and included the following: psychomotor speed reduction 
(cognitive/ behavioral), hemiataxia and oculomotor disorder (cerebellar), and unifocal hypoesthesia (multifocal 
sensory). Treatment  for IRIS included Aprednislon (prednisolone) 75 mg (reduced over four weeks) PO daily from 
01 May 2014, and Solumedrol 1 GM IV daily from 26 Apr to 30 Apr 2014. No additional lumbar punctures have 
been done. The patient has recovered from PML and has recovered from IRIS. Causality for the events was 
assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 10 Mar 2015:  Follow up information was received from a neurologist. The patient continues on MS 
treatment with TECFIDERA and current EDSS is 1.0 ("in a stringent assessment"). No further information was 
provided.
Update 27 Apr 2015: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive, residing at home, and is currently on Tecfidera for preventative MS therapy. 
The neurologist assessed the patient s estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores on 22 Apr 2015  to be 90 (able to 
carry on normal activity; minor signs or symptoms of disease) and 1. A brain MRI was performed on 22 Apr 2015 
(results not provided). As of 01 Aug 2014, the patient had recovered from PML and had recovered from IRIS. 
Causality for the events was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 10 Aug 2015: Follow-up information received from the neurologist reported that the patient is doing well. 
Close monitoring regarding the course of PML will be continued. Current MS treatment was TECFIDERA 
continued.