A neurologist reported via a company field force that a patient (patient not identifiable, therefore this report is 
invalid) on TYSABRI (unknown dose, unknown route, unknown frequency) for unknown indication from unknown 
date to unknown date was suspected of PML (onset unknown). Further information was not given. The outcome for
the event is unknown. The causality was not assessed. It is unknown if TYSABRI treatment is ongoing.
Update 14 Jan 2014: According to the company field force, the patient is treated by a professor of neurology.
Update 03 Apr 2014: Upon receipt of additional information from the treating neurologist, the patient's identity was 
confirmed. The 60 year old male patient had been on TYSABRI (300 mg, every 4 weeks) from 10 Dec 2008 to Aug 
2013 for Multiple sclerosis. The patient was initially hospitalized on (b) (6)  to unknown date but the reason 
was not provided; however, based on additional information provided it is safe to assume this admission was due to
PML. Upon completion of this first hospital stay, he was transferred to a rehabilitation facility. On (b) (6) , the 
patient was tranferred to the University Hospital due to progressive worsening of his general condition and further 
reduction of vigilance , differential diagnosis of aspiration pneumonia (onset unknown), sinusitis  (onset unknown) 
and the patient died (onset (b) (6) ) in the hospital. The hospital letter reported that the patient received a total
of more than 40 TYSABRI infusions while the reporting neurologist mentioned a total of 68 TYSABRI infusions (the 
latter is implausible). Cerebral imaging (presumed Brain MRI dated 2013) during rehabilitation had already shown 
further increase of known right frontal pronounced PML lesions as well as in the region of the right thalamus. The 
patient was suspected to have a bronchopulmonary infection (differential diagnosis: aspiration pneumonia) and had
been treated with Tazobac (piperacillin). Radiological test (presumed chest X-ray dated 2013) showed no sign for 
infiltration. MRI control in hospital (presumed brain MRI dated 2013) revealed further progression of known PML 
lesions, especially right frontal and questionable weak contrast uptake in right thalamic region. These findings were 
not indicative for IRIS. Lumbar puncture revealed a JC viral load of more than 450,000 copies/mL. Antiviral therapy 
with mefloquine and mirtazapine was continued. A percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube was installed
to facilitate oral nutrition. While infection improved, decreased vigilance was persistent and therefore IV amantadine
was administered. However, vigilance did not significantly improve. Amantadine was continued due to assumed 
antiviral effect. In the further course, mefloquine and amantadine were stopped and replaced by Foscavir 
(foscarnet). Foscavir therapy was well tolerated. Later on, the patient again had fever and had another decrease in 
vigilance. Therefore, another MRI control was performed (presumed brain MRI dated 2013), showing again 
progression of PML lesions as well supratentorial as infratentorial. As blood cultures were positive and the patient 
was diagnosed with sinusitis, treatment with Staphylex (flucloxacillin) was commenced. Infection parameters and 
fever improved, but patient's overall condition did not. The patient showed signs of central respiratory dysfunction, 
with repeated phases of Cheyne-Stokes-respiration. The patient was ventilated (non-invasive) intermittently; 
however the patient's blood gas analysis of oxygen and carbon dioxide could only be insufficiently balanced. Due to 
patient's provision on not to perform an intubation and also after several consultations with patient's next of kin and 
authorized representatives, non-invasive ventilation was stopped on (b) (6)  and the patient passed away on 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 455 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(b) (6)  in presence of his family. There was no mentioning of an autopsy being performed in the medical 
records; therefore, it was presumed that an autopsy was not performed. 
Update 10 Apr 2014: Upon internal review, this case is considered to be confirmed for PML.
Update 15 Apr 2014: This case was reported via the literature: Hoepner R, Ahlbrecht J, Faissner S, 
Schneider R et al. Clinical and paraclinical findings in natalizumab-associated infratentorial progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy patients. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry; 2014; Vol 0;No 0. The author reported that the 
patient, with initial infratentorial brainstem involvement, died within 3 months due to central respiratory failure (onset
and causality not reported). There was no report of an autopsy. No additional information was provided.
Update 29 May 2014: This case was reported via the literature: Hoepner R, Ahlbrecht J, Faissner S, Salmen A, 
Gold R and Chan A. Efficacy and Side Effects of Natalizumab Therapy in Patients with Multiple Sclerosis. Journal 
of Central nervous system Disease 2014:6 41-49. doi: 10.4137/JCnsD.s14049. The author reported that the patient
with predominant brainstem involvement had died (onset unknown; previously reported). No additional information 
was provided.
Update 30 Jul 2014: Upon internal review, it was determined that the patient's initials were reported incorrectly as 
(b) (6)  The correct initials are (b) (6)  The patient's date of birth was also added to the case. No other changes were 
made to the case.