Medically Significant
A report was received via the literature, Warnke C, von Geldern G, Markwerth P, et al. The CSF JCV antibody 
index for diagnosis of natalizumab-associated PML, Potential implications for PML case definition. Annals of 
Neurology. Accepted Article. doi:10.1002/ana.24153. Ahead of print (not yet published). The author reported that an
adult patient (identified as case 19) on TYSABRI (unknown dose, IV, unknown frequency) for Multiple Sclerosis 
from unknown date to unknown date experienced suspect PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy) 
(onset unknown). The patient was categorised in the qPCR>100 copies/ml AI (antibody index) <1.5 group. At the 
time of suspect PML diagnosis: CSF JCV DNA testing at an unspecified laboratory showed 306 copies/ml and CSF
JCV antibody Index (AI JCV) of 0.58 (units and reference range not reported). The author concluded that 
determination of the AI JCV could be an added tool in the diagnostic workup for PML and should be included in the 
case definition of natalizumab associated PML. No additional information was provided. The outcome and causality 
for the event suspect PML was not reported. It is unknown if TYSABRI treatment is ongoing.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 513 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 20 Nov 2014: Information was received via the literature: Warnke C., Stettner M., Lehmensick V., et al. 
Natalizumab exerts a suppressive effect on surrogates of B cell function in blood and CSF. Multiple Sclerosis 
Journal.  Published online 12 November 2014.  The authors aimed to assess the effect of natalizumab on cellular 
composition and functional B cell parameters including 37 patients with natalizumab-associated PML.  IgG levels in 
blood and CSF were available from the 37 patients, of which 20 were first sampled at time of diagnosis as defined 
by a first positive PCR for JCV DNA in CSF.  Patients with natalizumab-associated PML were 28-63 years old 
(average 45), 68% were female, and the treatment duration was 19-75 months (average 44).  The authors 
concluded that natalizumab impacts B and T cell distribution and exerts an inhibitory effect on surrogates of B cell 
function in periphery and in cerebrospinal fluid, potentially contributing to the increased risk of developing PML.
This case refers to one of the 37 patients with natalizumab-associated PML.