MEDICALLY SIGNIFICANT
A report was received via the literature, Warnke C, von Geldern G, Markwerth P, et al. The CSF JCV antibody 
index for diagnosis of natalizumab-associated PML, Potential implications for PML case definition. Annals of 
Neurology. Accepted Article. doi:10.1002/ana.24153. The author reported that a patient on TYSABRI (unspecified 
dosing regimen) on unspecified dates had progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). The patient's prior 
history, concomitant medications, and clinical status were unknown. It was unknown how many doses of TYSABRI 
the patient had received. Investigations revealed that the patient had 56 copies/mL of JCV DNA in CSF and a CSF 
JCV antibody Index of 4.46. Treatments and outcome of PML were not reported. Author causality was assessed to 
be related based on the reported terminology of "natalizumab associated PML".
Update 15 Sep 2014: Follow-up attempts with the authors were unsuccessful. Upon internal review, Biogen Idec 
considers this case to be final call as a high suspect PML case.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 510 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 20 Nov 2014: Information was received via the literature: Warnke C., Stettner M., Lehmensick V., et al. 
Natalizumab exerts a suppressive effect on surrogates of B cell function in blood and CSF. Multiple Sclerosis 
Journal.  Published online 12 November 2014.  The authors aimed to assess the effect of natalizumab on cellular 
composition and functional B cell parameters including 37 patients with natalizumab-associated PML.  IgG levels in 
blood and CSF were available from the 37 patients, of which 20 were first sampled at time of diagnosis as defined 
by a first positive PCR for JCV DNA in CSF.  Patients with natalizumab-associated PML were 28-63 years old 
(average 45), 68% were female, and the treatment duration was 19-75 months (average 44).  The authors 
concluded that natalizumab impacts B and T cell distribution and exerts an inhibitory effect on surrogates of B cell 
function in periphery and in cerebrospinal fluid, potentially contributing to the increased risk of developing PML. This
case refers to one of the 37 patients with natalizumab-associated PML. No new information was reported on this 
patient.