A study investigator reported that a 46 year-old female patient on TYSABRI (unknown dose, unknown route, 
unknown frequency) from 25 Jan 2012 and enrolled in the (b) (6)
experienced severe Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). The indication for TYSABRI was relapsing-
remitting multiple sclerosis, diagnosed on an unspecified date. The most recent TYSABRI infusion was 
administered on 12 Dec 2013. The patient had received an unknown number of infusions to date.  Relevant 
medical history, concomitant medication, and previous medication were not provided. 
On (b) (6)  the patient was hospitalized in a specialized clinic and discharged on unknown date with sign of 
PML. Treatment was not provided. JCV PCR on (b) (6)  was positive at 35,000 copies/ml.The patient was still 
stationary.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 516 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The investigator considered the event of PML to be life-threatening and related to TYSABRI. His rationale included 
"typica complication". TYSABRI therapy was permanently discontinued on 14 Jan 2014. At the time of this report 
the outcome of the event PML was unknown.
Biogen Idec considers this a high suspect PML case
Update 05 Aug 2014: In response to a request for follow-up information, the study investigator reported that the 
patient had received a total of 24 doses of TYSABRI and had tested positive for the first time for anti JCV 
antibodies in Dec 2013. He confirmed the diagnosis PML and that the patient was treated in a university hospital for
PML. The onset of the first PML symptoms was unknown; the patient was hospitalized in a rehabilitation facility at 
that time. The patient currently lives in a different city than the study investigator. The patient became in need of 
care due to PML - and possibly due to a late diagnosis of PML. The investigator was not able to provide MRI 
findings, but stated he would be sending a hospital discharge letter. 
Update 11 Aug 2014: A neurologist reported that the patient was treated at their hospital, but due to data privacy, a 
discharge report cannot be provided. It was noted no MRI had been performed and cerebrospinal fluid test (liquor 
test) or antibody testing was not performed at their facility. The neurologist noted that they (presume in reference 
the hospital) did not diagnose the suspicion of PML or make changes to MS therapy.  No further follow-up 
information could be provided.
Update 27 Aug 2014: Additional information was reported from the treating neurologist. The patient was 
hospitalized in a local hospital from (b) (6)  to(b) (6)  and was transferred to the university hospital due 
to suspicion of PML on (b) (6)  Neurological examination on admission ((b) (6) ) showed saccadic eye 
movement, gazeevoked nystagmus, no dysarthria, no aphasia, spastic tetraparesis more pronounced on the left, 
and pyramidal tract signs positive on the left. The patient was diagnosed with PML (onset (b) (6) ) under 
TYSABRI therapy (total of 24 infusions) and IRIS as well as symptomatic epilepsy. During the hospital stay, the 
patient s condition worsened: paralysis of the left arm, speech became slurred. On(b) (6)  the patient was 
transferred to stroke unit for further management and monitoring. The patient s condition was stabilized. PEG was 
placed without complications. At the beginning of (b) (6)  the patient s vigilance, speech and attention further 
deteriorated consistent with worsening of findings seen in MRI on (b) (6)  On unknown date in (b) (6)  the 
patient presented focal fits and worsening of respiratory function and was transferred to the intensive care unit. The
patient had reported suffering from hemiparesis left for about three months. Due to the hemiparesis, cortisone 
treatment was performed without improvement of the symptoms. Subsequently, the patient hemiparesis had 
worsened. The patient required intensive care treatment from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)   Medical history included
MS since 2000 previously treated with Avonex (interferon beta-1a) until Nov 2012. Concomitant medications 
included Fampyra (fampridine), Sativex spray (cannabidiol and dronabinol), Mydocalm (tolperisone), Spasmex 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 517 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(trospium chloride), amitriptyline, and Vigantoletten (colecalciferol). Chest X ray on (b) (6)  showed pneumonic
infiltrates and suspected pleural effusion on the left side. EEG on (b) (6)  showed no epilepsy-typical 
potentials. A lumbar puncture was performed on (b) (6)  and JCV DNA PCR test returned positive with 35000 
copies/ml. Liquor analysis revealed furthermore no Borrelien, no oligoclonal bands, protein 15 /mcl, lactate 2.5 mM,
cells 15 /mcl. The patient underwent further liquor puncture on (b) (6)  and JCV DNA PCR test showed 19500
copies/ml.  CSF JCV DNA PCR test on (b) (6)  revealed 47000 copies/ml. On (b) (6)  MRI of brain 
revealed a new distinct lesion in basal ganglia and thalamus on the right with questionable contrast agent 
enhancement in putamen. MS lesions progressed compared to the previous examination from Jan 2012. In (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  MRI of cervical spine showed large confluent demyelinating MS lesions without contrast enhancement and 
suspicion of haemangioma of the 5th cervical vertebra. MRI brain native and with contrast medium on 06 Mar 2014:
distinct T2 hyperintense partly edematous and spiceoccupying white matter lesions in basal ganglia and thalamus 
and in the frontal white matter on the right involving U fiber. Beginning patchy contrast agent enhancement. The 
finding was consistent with PML IRIS. Additionally, distinct T2 MS lesions infra and supratentorial in pons and 
Pedunculus cerebelli. MRI brain on (b) (6)  findings unchanged compared to previous examination. Mild 
patchy contrast agent enhancement frontal and in basal ganglia s area was slightly regredient. MRI brain on (b) (6)
(b) (6)  no significant changes compared to previous examination. MRI brain on (b) (6)  significant progress in 
size of T2 lesions in basal ganglia on both sides and especially frontal on the right side with a minimal midline shift 
to the left consistent with brain edema with necrotic parts. Significant blood brain barrier disruption more 
pronounced in the basal ganglia and frontal on the right side. Treatment included 5 cycles of 
plasmapheresis/immunoadsorption until (b) (6)  mefloquine and mirtazapine (both since (b) (6) ) for 
PML; levetiracetam for epilepsy prophylaxis; endotracheal intubation on (b) (6)  protective surgical 
tracheostomy on (b) (6)  The Causality for the event PML was assessed as related to TYSABRI. The 
causality for the events IRIS and symptomatic epilepsy was not provided. The event of PML is ongoing. The 
outcome for the events IRIS and symptomatic epilepsy was unknown. TYSABRI was permanently discontinued on 
14 Jan 2014.
Update 29 Aug 2014: Upon internal review, Biogen Idec considers this case to be  confirmed for PML  based on 
positive CSF and MRI findings.
Update 10 Jan 2015: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is currently residing at home. The patient's estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores on 
09 Jan 2015 were 30 (severely disabled; hospital admission is indicated although death not imminent) and 9.0. The 
patient had a negative HIV result and tested negative for anti-natalizumab antibodies on an unspecified date. The 
patient had not been diagnosed with IRIS (discrepant from previously received information). As of 09 Jan 2015, the 
patient had not recovered from PML. Causality for the event was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 518 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 14 Aug 2015: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is currently residing in a nursing home.  The neurologist reported the patient was 
currently on another therapy for MS (NOS) due to clinical relapse. The patient's past MS therapy had included 
AVONEX from 2003 to Nov 2012. The most recent brain MRI was performed on 19 Dec 2014 (results not 
provided).  The patient's estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores on 04 Aug 2015 were 30 (severely disabled; 
hospital admission is indicated although death not imminent) and 9.5. As of 14 Aug 2015 the patient has not 
recovered from PML and IRIS.