A Sponsored Trial report of abnormal bilateral posterior cataract in Subject (b) (6)  was received from a 
Physician in the UNITED STATES from Study (b) (6)
This report was reported to the study sponsor 
on 20-MAY-2014. 
The subject's relevant medical history included Cystic fibrosis, Chronic sinusitis, Rhinitis, Pancreatic insufficiency, 
Congenital eyelid malformation, Cough, and Gastrooesophageal reflux disease. Relevant concomitant medications 
included ACYCLOVIR, PROVENTIL, ALBUTEROL SULFATE, AQUADEKS, CREON, COLACE, ATROVENT, 
CULTURELLE, PEDIASURE, PRILOSEC, AFRIN, MIRALAX, and SODIUM CHLORIDE.
The subject received study medication, Kalydeco (ivacaftor), for the treatment of cystic fibrosis beginning on 09-
MAR-2014.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 29 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On 20-May-2014, 72 days after the first dose, the subject presented for an eye exam and an ophthalmologist 
diagnosed bilateral posterior cataracts according to the LOCS III grading scale, which was assessed as a medically
significant event. No other vision related changed were noted and no treatment was administered at this time. No 
changes were made to study medication dosing as a result of the event and, at the time of this report, the event 
was not yet resolved.
The investigator reported the Abnormal bilateral posterior cataract as Related to treatment with Kalydeco. 
Additional information has been requested.
Similar event analysis:
Prior to the current case report, there was 1 expedited SAE report of cataract submitted to the IND (Mfr Ctrl 
Number: 2014-002228). Cumulatively, across ivacaftor clinical development program and post-marketing 
experience, cataracts/lens abnormalities were previously identified in 10 subjects/patients, ranging in age from 9 to 
12 years. Of the 10 reports, 6 cases were identified at the initial study ophthalmological examination of the ocular 
Study (b) (6)  2 from a long-term open-label study (Study (b) (6) ) and 2 were received from spontaneous sources. 
Among these reports, 5 were considered congenital by the examining ophthalmologist, based on their clinical 
features and 5 were non-congenital. The interpretations of the 5 non-congenital cases (4 non-serious and 1 serious
expedited) are confounded by a number of factors: the absence of pre-treatment eye examinations, the subtle 
nature of the findings, Type I diabetes; prolonged corticosteroid use, family history of cataract, and exposure to 
radiation and the short exposure period in one particular case. Characteristically across these 10 cases, the lens 
abnormalities were variable in location, generally consisting of small or subtle findings, and considered not clinically 
significant, without impact on vision. All subjects have continued ivacaftor treatment, and no progression has been 
observed in follow-up eye examinations conducted to date. Following a thorough analysis, the conclusion is that 
these lens abnormalities do not suggest an association with ivacaftor treatment.
Manufacturer's comment (2014-002404): the serious event of cataract is considered unexpected for Kalydeco 
(ivacaftor). This 7-year-old subject was examined during the study eye exam with a diagnosis of bilateral posterior 
cataracts without other vision related changes noted, 72 days after the commencement of Kalydeco (ivacaftor) 
treatment; Kalydeco treatment was continued. No baseline and pre-treatment assessment is available. Based upon
the limited information available and without information about pre-treatment eye examinations as well as the past 
ocular history, it is not clear whether the cataract diagnosed during this eye examination is a pre-existing condition 
or possibly treatment-associated effect. Additional information has been solicited to allow more meaningful medical 
assessment. Furthermore, follow-up eye examinations while continuing on Kalydeco,  will provide useful information
for further assessment.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 30 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
FOLLOW-UP INFORMATION was received on 27-May-2014 from an investigator:
The subject's great grandparent was reported to have been diagnosed with cataracts at 60 years of age. The 
subject did not have a history of steroidal use. The subject had previously been exposed to radiation via x-rays as 
follows: X-ray abdomen three times in 2007, once in 2008, once in 2012; X-ray hand once in 2011; X-ray clavicle 
twice in 2012; X-ray sinus once in 2012; X-ray chest four times in 2007, once in 2008, once in 2009, twice in 2011, 
and three times in 2012. The subject did not have any history of physical injury/trauma to the eye. The subject had 
no exposure to cigarette smoke, although an uncle who lived with the subject smoked outside and smelled of 
cigarette smoke indoors. The subject's mother had a history of strabismus. Maternal uncle had a history of 
amblyopia. Maternal grandmother and grandfather had histories of diabetes and maternal grandmother also had a 
history of hypertension. Concomitant medications were updated to include LACTOBACILLUS RHAMNOSUS.
During an eye exam on 18-Mar-2008, it was noted that the subject's left eye was crossing inward multiple times per
day. This condition was assessed as mild and was noted to have been ongoing for four months at the time of the 
exam. External, slit lamp, and fundus exams of the eyes were normal. Strabismus exam without refractive 
correction noted orthophoria at both distance and near with +3.00DS near bifocals.
The subject first received Kalydeco (ivacaftor) for the treatment of cystic fibrosis in Feb-2013 (not Mar-2014, as 
previously reported).
The initial ophthalmology exam in Study (b) (6)  showed a positive spherical variation of 1.50, no cylindrical 
variation, and normal red reflex in the right eye. Slit lamp exam of the left eye showed an abnormal left lens with a 
posterior cataract. Left lens nuclear opalescence was 0.1, nuclear color was 0.1, cortical cataract was 0.1, and 
posterior subcapsular cataract was 0.2. Slit lamp exam of the right eye showed an abnormal right lens with a 
posterior cataract. Right lens nuclear opalescence was 0.1, nuclear color was 0.1, cortical cataract was 0.1, and 
posterior subcapsular cataract was 0.2.
The subject had had eye exams previously, but at the time of this report the ophthalmologist felt those changes 
would have been so mild that it was doubtful the cataract was ever reported previously. The cataract did not appear
to be congenital. It was described as "a small wrinkle in the posterior capsule with a faint opacity" and assess as 
neither clinically, nor visually significant. During the initial eye exam, age appropriate, bilateral hyperopia was also 
noted. Visual acuity was 20/20 in the right eye and 20/20 -3 in the left eye. External exam of the eyes was normal. 
Slit lamp exam showed no changes to either eye as compared to 2008 exam, except for both lenses, each of which
showed the following: No 0.1, Nc 0.1, C 0.1, P 0.2. Fundus exam was unchanged from 2008 exam. Strabismus 
exam was unchanged from 2008 exam.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 31 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Event outcome was not updated. Additional information has been requested.
Manufacturer's comment (2014-002404): the serious event of cataract is considered unexpected for Kalydeco 
(ivacaftor). This 7-year-old subject was examined during the initial eye exam in Study (b) (6) with a diagnosis of 
bilateral posterior cataracts without other vision related changes noted, approximately 15 months after the 
commencement of Kalydeco (ivacaftor) treatment; Kalydeco treatment was still continued. Based on the 
information received, this cataract finding appeared to be very small and subtle, and was assessed as neither 
clinically, nor visually significant. The study ophthalmologist considered those changes would have been so mild 
that it was doubtful the cataract was ever reported previously. The only pre-treatment assessment currently 
available was from the eye exam conducted 6 years ago (in 2008), when the exam did not indicate any sign 
relevant to cataract. It was also noted that this subject had multiple underlying ocular conditions including 
pseudostrabismus, bilateral hyperopia and congenital deformity of eyelid, and she had past exposure to radiation 
via x-rays on multiple occasions since 2007, which could be the contributory factor. Based upon the information 
available, it is not clear whether the cataract diagnosed during this eye examination is a pre-existing condition or 
possibly treatment-associated effect. Additional information has been solicited. Furthermore, follow-up eye 
examinations while continuing on Kalydeco, will provide useful information for further assessment.
FOLLOW-UP INFORMATION was received on 05-Nov-2014 from an investigator:
On 03-Nov-2014, the subject was seen by an ophthalmologist for the 6-month eye exam on study (b) (6)
Eye exam was normal with age-appropriate hyperopia noted on cycloplegic refraction. Visual acuity in the right eye 
was 20/20 at distance and near. Visual acuity in the left eye was 20/25 +2 at distance and 20/20 near. Left eye 
spherical direction was positive with a variation of 1.00. Cylindrical direction was positive with a variation of 0.25 and
axis 180. Right eye spherical direction was positive with a variation of 1.00. Cylindrical direction was positive with a 
variation of 0.25 and axis 180. Slit-lamp exams showed that left nuclear opalescence was 0.1, left nuclear color 
was 0.1, left cortical cataract was 0.1, and left posterior subcapsular cataract was 0.2. Right nuclear opalescence 
was 0.1, right nuclear color was 0.1, right cortical cataract was 0.1, and right posterior subcapsular cataract was 
0.2. Fundus exams were normal in both eyes, with C/D ratios of 0.1 in both eyes. At the time of this report, the 
event remained ongoing.
Additional information has been requested.
Manufacturer's comment: no change to the previous medical assessment. Based upon the follow up information 
related to 6-month eye exam, it appears no sign for cataract worsening or progression while continuing on Kalydeco
treatment due to no change to LOCS grading for both lens and no notable change to vision. The cataract is still 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 32 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
considered not clinically or visually significant.
FOLLOW-UP INFORMATION was received on 05-May-2015 from an investigator: 
On 04-May-2015, the subject was seen for a protocol required study visit. It was reported that the subject had no 
history of sunglasses or contact use, no cataracts based on the last eye exam, and no complaints of photophobia 
nor did she use sunglasses outside. Visual acuity in the right eye was 20/20 at distance and near. Visual acuity in 
the left eye was 20/20-1 at distance and 20/20 near. Left eye spherical direction was positive with a variation of 
1.00. Cylindrical direction was positive with a variation of 0.25 and axis 180. Slit lamp exam showed right lens with 
No 0.1, Nc 0.1, C0.1, P 0.2 and left lens with No 0.1, Nc 0.1, C 0.1, P0.2.  The reporter stated that the subject was 
not presently using any steroids. The investigator confirmed that there was no past history of eye trauma, smoking, 
or second hand smoke exposure. She had no past or current history of diabetes but did have significant history of 
radiation exposure resulting from X-rays, MRI's and CT scans.
Manufacturer's comment: no change to the previous medical assessment. Based upon the follow up information 
received for 12-month eye exam, the slit lamp for LOCS did not indicate any progress for cataract in both eyes, 
compared to the results from previous eye exams in the study. No significant change to the vision. However, the 
subject did have significant history of radiation exposure resulting from X-rays, MRI's and CT scans, which could be
contributory factors for cataract.
FOLLOW-UP INFORMATION was received on 09-Jun-2015 from an investigator:
The ophthalmologist stated that the subject had no cataracts based on the last eye exam. The reporter stated that 
the previously reported event of abnormal bilateral posterior cataract from the last exam was an overcall and did 
not see cataracts at the third visit. The slit lamp exams were consistent throughout the visits.
Manufacturer's comment: Based upon the follow up information received, the ophthalmologist denied the existence 
of cataract and pointed out the consistent results obtained from slit lamp during the study.
FOLLOW UP INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED FROM SITE INVESTIGATOR ON 13-NOV-2015.
The site confirmed the reported event of Abnormal bilateral posterior cataract as an overcall; and, justified leaving 
the ophthalmic exam data as is because the diagnosing ophthalmologist is no longer at the site to provide 
additional information.  Since all subsequent ophthalmic exams were normal with no cataracts observed, a stop 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 33 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
date for the reported event of 04-May-2015 was reported.
Manufacturer's Comments: The two possibilities are that the previously seen cataract resolved, or possibly more 
likely that the initial diagnosis was an "overcall." In the first scenario, the cataract resolved while the patient 
continued taking KALYDECO (ivacaftor). Thus, the sponsor believes it is unlikely that the cataract is due to 
treatment with KALYDECO (ivacaftor). The company causality field has been updated to "Not Related" to reflect 
this. Additional guidance will be requested regarding whether the previously reported cataract should remain or be 
removed as an adverse event.
FOLLOW UP INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED ON 12-JAN-2016 FROM THE PHYSICIAN:
The patient's only radiation exposure was from X-rays, last x-ray was 2012. There was no family history of 
amblyopia and strabismus. On 27-Oct-2015, the subject was seen by an ophthalmologist for the 18-month eye 
exam. There was no change in eye exam as compared to six-month visit. Visual acuity in the right eye was 20/20-1 
at distance. Visual acuity in the left eye was 20/20 -2 at distance. Left eye spherical direction was positive with a 
variation of 0.75. Right eye spherical direction was positive with a variation of 1.00. Slit-lamp exams showed that left
nuclear opalescence was 0.1, left nuclear color was 0.1, left cortical cataract was 0.1, and left posterior subcapsular
cataract was 0.2. Right nuclear opalescence was 0.1, right nuclear color was 0.1, right cortical cataract was 0.1, 
and right posterior subcapsular cataract was 0.2. Fundus exams were normal in both eyes, with C/D ratios of 0.1 in 
both eyes.
Manufacturer's comments: The serious event of cataract is unexpected for Kalydeco. The cause of the cataract 
could be related to underlying disease. Her vision test appears to be stable at this time.
FOLLOW UP INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED ON 07-JUN-2016 FROM THE PHYSICIAN:
On 23-May-2016, the subject was seen for the 24 month follow-up ophthalmology examination. The patient was 
doing well and had age appropriate hyperopia both eyes. The visual acuity was tested via the Snellen method and 
for the right eye (OD), it was 20/20, for the left eye (OS) the same was 20/20, and for both the eyes (OU) was also 
20/20. External exam of the eyes was normal. Left eye spherical direction was positive with a variation of 0.50. 
Right eye spherical direction was positive with a variation of 0.75. Red reflex was normal. The right and the left eye 
slit lamp exam was normal with right lens with No 0.1, Nc 0.1, C0.1, P 0.2 and left lens with No 0.1, Nc 0.1, C 0.1, P
0.2. Fundus exams were normal in both eyes, with C/D ratios of 0.1 in both eyes. Strabismus exam without 
refractive correction noted orthophoria at both distance and near with +3.00 DS near bifocals.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 34 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Manufacturer's comments: The follow up information regarding the previously reported event of cataract 
demonstrate no significant additional changes from prior eye exam completed six months earlier. The eye exams 
have inconsistently documented mild posterior cataract which if present has not impacted vision. There are 
underlying congenital eye abnormalities described in the eye exams as well that appear to be stable. Considering 
the questionable finding of cataract, the underlying congenital eye abnormalities and the long term stability of visual 
findings while on Kalydeco, it is unlikely that the drug caused the cataract.