Medically Significant
A neurologist spontaneously reported that a female patient (age unknown) on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for 
several years for Multiple Sclerosis from unknown date to unknown date is under observation for PML [Progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy] (onset unknown).  According to the neurologist, evident symptoms were not 
present. Testing included a SDMT [Symbol Digit Modalities Test] (date unknown), which showed a decrease from 
72 to 56, [presumed JCV DNA] PCR [polymerase chain reaction] (date unknown) was slightly positive, MRI 
[magnetic resonance imaging] (date unknown) showed no changes, and JCV antibody test (date unknown) was 
positive with an index of 0.2.  No treatment was reported for the event.  The outcome for the event PML is 
unknown. The causality for the event of PML was assessed as related.  It is unknown if TYSABRI treatment is 
ongoing.
Update 15 May 2014: Upon follow-up received via email, the neurologist clarified via a Biogen Idec Employee 
(Medical Science Liaison) that the patient is under observation for PML and has been transferred to a regional 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 529 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
hospital for PLEX [plasmapheresis].  The positive CSF was tested by a local lab. No further information was 
provided.
Update 24 Jun 2014: Upon follow-up received by the neurologist, the case was considered to be false positive as a 
second lumbar puncture was negative and nothing has been shown on MRI.
Update 26 Jun 2014: Upon follow-up received via a Biogen Idec Employee, the recent JCV testing (lumbar 
puncture) was performed at the National Danish Serum Institute.  The final diagnosis for the patietn was unknown.
MRI details have been requested but not yet received.
Update 26 Jun 2014: Upon internal review by Biogen Idec, this case is now considered low suspect for PML based 
on lack of MRI evidence and negative CSF on second test.  The first test was believed to be a possible false 
positive.