Medically Significant
A neurologist spontaneously reported that an approximately 23 year old female patient on TYSABRI (unknown 
dose, unknown route, QM) for Multiple Sclerosis from Mar 2013 to unknown date was hospitalized since (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  for personality changes (onset (b) (6) ) and PML was suspected (onset (b) (6) ). The patient was 
transferred from a private practice to an university hospital on (b) (6)  for further management. MRI (unknown
date) revealed lesion(s) for suspicious PML. The patient was tested positive for JCV antibody (unknown index 
value;  unknown date). The patient had never received any immunosuppressive therapy prior to TYSABRI. An 
evaluation for PLEX was scheduled on (b) (6)  MRI was scheduled for (b) (6)  Lumbar puncture and 
the shipment of [CSF] sample will be performed if the suspicion of PML is confirmed. The events of suspected PML
and personality changes are ongoing. The causality for the events of suspected PML and personality changes is 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 532 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
unknown.  It is unknown if TYSABRI treatment is ongoing.
Update 14 May 2014: Additional information was received. The patient had MS since Feb 2012 and had been on 
TYSABRI ( 300 mg, IV, QM) since Mar 2013. The patient was suffering from cognitive alterations for 3 days. MRI 
(unknown date) revealed bifrontal lesions suspected to be due to PML. CSF samples was taken on (b) (6)
and was sent to (b) (6)  The patient had been treated with plasmapheresis. 
Update 15 May 2014: Additional information was received via a Biogen Idec employee from the treating physician. 
The patient started on TYSABRI for relapsing remitting Multiple Sclerosis (discrepant information) from Mar 2013 . 
Last infusion was received on 01 May 2014. The patient was tested positive for JCV antibodies in Nov 2012 
(Stratify JCV). On (b) (6)  late afternoon, the patient's mother informed the nurse of the Multiple Sclerosis unit
of the regional hospital and the treating physician of some mental changes in her daughter. The mother stated 
"something is wrong." The next routine MRI was planned for Jun 2014. On (b) (6)  the patient was examined 
at the neurology unit of the regional hospital and an MRI was performed. Based on the MRI image analysis and 
clinical examinations, PML was suspected. Due to the incapacity to perform a PLEX, the patient was transferred to 
the MS unit of the university hospital for plasmapheresis, liquor and JCV DNA copies.
Update 20 May 2014: Additional information was received.  The neurologist contacted the medical department to 
urgently discuss the case of the female patient with severe PML currently under plasmapheresis. The neurologist is
very worried that the IRIS may evolve fatally. MRI revealed extensive frontal bilateral PML. Prophylactic 
administration of steroid is being considered.  No further information was provided.
Update 26 May 2014: Additional information was received from the treating physician. MRI showed massive 
extension of PML-like infiltrates in both frontal lobes up to the brain stem area; Gd enhancement in the area of both 
frontal lobes. The patient's clinical symptoms were focusing on mental deficit (speech etc.) and the patient's motoric
was relatively good. PLEX was completed at the time of this report. Concurrent pharmacological therapies included 
antibiotics, anticonvulsiva, and IRIS encountered with steroids and Celsentri (maraviroc). Before starting PLEX, a 
lymphocyte TYSABRI blockage test was performed but there only was an intermediate test result (not provided). No
further information was provided.
Update 05 Jun 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient was diagnosed with MS in (b) (6)  (discrepant from previous report). MS symptoms 
included motor (left hemi-symptoms, left arm paresis [onset Feb 2012], gait unsteadiness [onset (b) (6) ]), 
cerebellar (episodes of vertigo, [onset Feb 2012]), sensory (sensation of tightness onset [Dec 2012], paresthesia 
onset [(b) (6) ]), and fatigue (onset Feb 2012). The patient had not received immunosuppressant or 
immunomodulatory therapy previously. On 11 Dec 2012, serum anti-JCV antibody status was positive. Dates of 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 533 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
TYSABRI therapy was from Mar 2013 to 01 May 2014. On 13 Dec 2013, a brain MRI revealed a small PML lesion 
on the right frontal lobe. Onset date of PML symptoms was (b) (6)  and included cognitive/ behavioral 
(slowness) and motor (handwriting, recurrent falls) symptoms.  A brain MRI was performed on (b) (6)
(previously reported). On (b) (6)  a lumbar puncture was performed with a positive CSF JCV DNA result of 
1900 copies per mL (local lab) and 1208 copies per mL ((b) (6) ). CSF analysis was normal. The patient underwent a 
total of four PLEX sessions on (b) (6)  (b) (6)  (b) (6)  and (b) (6)  (total volume 8300 mL). PML treatment 
medications included mirtazapine and oral mefloquine 250 mg daily from (b) (6)  to (b) (6) . Due to the very 
large, multilobar PML, the patient was treated prophylactically for IRIS with corticosteroids (20 to 10 mg PO daily 
from (b) (6)  - (b) (6) ) and maraviroc (150 mg PO BID from (b) (6)  - (b) (6) ). Currently, the patient is 
in the hospital and has not recovered from PML. Causality for the event was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 11 Jun 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient s estimated functional scores were assessed as follows: Karnofsky score prior to 
TYSABRI was assessed to be 100 (normal no complaints; no evidence of disease). Karnofsky and EDSS scores 
while on TYSABRI were 100 and 2.5, respectively (18 Dec 2013).  On (b) (6)  Karnofsky and EDSS scores 
were 50 (disabled; requires special care and assistance) and 3, respectively. On (b) (6)  the patient tested 
positive for blood JCV DNA, and was negative for HIV. The patient is alive and is currently in the hospital. No 
additional lumbar punctures have been performed since (b) (6)  The patient has not recovered from PML. 
Causality for the event was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 12 Jun 2014:  Upon internal review, the case is confirmed for PML based on clinical symptoms, positive 
radiologic findings on MRI, and positive JCV DNA in CSF.
Update 17 Jun 2014:  The following information was received from Swissmedic (registry number not provided).  On 
13 Jun 2014 the neurologist reported to Swissmedic that the onset of PML was (b) (6)  (date discrepant).
The patient had no prior history of immunosuppressive therapy.  Additional medical history included MS, sinus node
syndrome, and annulus fibrosus deficiency without neuronal contact in segments L5/S1.  An MRT (MRI) on (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  showed noticeable organic abnormalities in the form of frontal bilateral PML lesions.  Concomitant 
medications included Fragmin (dalteparin).  The medical reviewer of the health authority assessed causality as 
probable.
Update 25 Jun 2014: Additional information was provided from the neurologist via a (b) (6)  form. The patient had a 
follow up lumbar puncture on (b) (6)  CSF was sent to (b) (6)  for JCV PCR; results are pending. 
Additionally, the patient had repeat MRIs on (b) (6) (b) (6) (b) (6)  and (b) (6)  which all 
showed no progression and no contrast enhancement. MRI on 24 Jun 2014 revealed signs of IRIS with contrast 
enhancing lesions frontal, insular region, cerebellar and meseencephalic as well as pontin lesions. Therefore the 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 534 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
patient was treated with a course of Solu-Medrol 1000mg from 25 to 27 Jun 2014 followed by oral Prednisone taper
at 100mg daily since (b) (6) . Prior to this steroid course, the patient was on Prednisone 10mg from (b) (6)  to 
(b) (6)  Treatment dates for PLEX, mefloquin, and Maraviroc were discrepant from previous reports: 
According to the(b) (6)  form, the patient received 3 sessions of PLEX from (b)  to (b) (6)(6)  mefloquin 250mg 
weekly from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  Maraviroc 150mg twice daily from 22 May 2014 to 08 Jun 2014. 
Update 30 Jul 2014: Additional information was reported by the physician to the health authority on 02 Jul 2014.
The PML lesions were retrospectively already recognizable on the MRI of Dec-2013. The patient's vigilance 
worsened further and the patient developed a hemisyndrome on the left side which was diagnosed as spastic 
tetraparesis. In addition, status myoclonus was present. Therapy with plasmapheresis, Mefloquin and Maraviroc 
continues. The result of the JCV PCR done on (b) (6)  was 1208 copies/ml JCV-DNA. The PML diagnosis 
was confirmed on (b) (6)  The patient's condition has not improved after discontinuation of TYSABRI.  The 
patient scores 7 on Glasgow Coma Scale, she was intubated and remains in intensive care.
Update 18 Jun 2015: This additional information, received from the Regulatory Authority of Switzerland, 
SwissMedic, was generated in response to receipt of a MS PML Data Collection Form by the initial reporting 
neurologist, who then provided the information directly to SwissMedic; A physician sent a follow-up to the Health 
Authority stating that the 24 year old (previously reported 23 year old) female patient was transferred to 
neurorehabilitation on 23 Jul 2014. At admission, the patient was in a minimally conscious state with high-grade 
spastic tetraparesis (more pronounced on the arm and left side), absence of head and trunk stability, as well as 
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) and tracheostomy. MRI images on 04 Aug 2014 and 07 Aug 2014 
showed a progression of the PML when compared to the previous examinations. Based on the MRI images, a 
progression of the IRIS was also suspected. High dose cortisone therapy was therefore initiated. Additional MRI 
images (date not provided) showed a clear improvement of the findings with regression of the parenchymtous 
alterations induced by the PML and IRIS. Slight clinical improvement could be observed since beginning of Sep 
2014. The patient initially opened her eyes regularly and was then able to look at persons purposefully. There was 
repeated impression that the patient was attempting to express herself verbally. Requests could however not be 
executed. Emotions (crying / smiling) were perceived more as uncontrolled primitive reflexes and did not occur 
within a particular context. Long term severe disability requiring 24- hour care was to be expected. The medical 
reviewer of the health authority commented the follow-up of 10 Jun 2015 (date received by SwissMedic) as follows: 
An improvement (of the patient's condition) has not occurred, which does not have to be considered as a negative 
dechallenge, since an improvement of the prognosis with PML/IRIS is not necessarily to be expected. We (The 
medical reviewer of the health authority) retain our initial evaluation and consider the causality between the onset of
PML under TYSABRI treatment according to the CIOMS criteria formally as probable. The risk to develop a PML 
increases with the duration of treatment under TYSABRI. The patient took TYSABRI during 14 months until the 
initial diagnosis of PML. A plausible temporal relationship is therefore present. The last administration of TYSABRI 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 535 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
occurred on 01 May 2014. PML being an irreversible event, an improvement of the symptomatology is not to be 
expected after discontinuation of treatment. It cannot be excluded, that minor symptoms may be due to an evolution
of the underlying multiple sclerosis. A reactivation of the JC virus under immunosuppressive therapy of the positive 
JC virus findings (Dec 2012) is absolutely plausible. According to the product information of Swissmedic, the 
presence of anti-JCV antibodies in addition to the duration of treatment (longer than 2 years) represents risk factors
for an increased risk for developing a PML. The administration of TYSABRI has been related to an increased risk 
for developing a PML and to an opportunistic infection associated with the JC virus, which can evolve fatally or lead 
to severe disability. Considering the temporal relationship, the good documentation in the literature, the 
pathophysiological plausibility in the presence of risk factors and the absence of concrete indices for other possible 
causes, the medical reviewer of the health authority considered the causality between the PML and TYSABRI 
formally as probable.