(b) (6)  .Initial information was 
received on 27-MAY-2014 and was processed with additional information received on 28-MAY-2014 and 04-JUN-
2014. This serious report was received from clinical trial (b) (6)
 and concerns a 74-year-old Caucasian female ((b) (6) ) from 
the United States. 
The subject's medical history included chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection, 
bacterial meningitis (July 2012), anemia, bacterial infection, and acyclovir prophylaxis. There was no prior history of 
rituximab and immune suppressants use and/or any autoimmune conditions. 
The subject was enrolled in study and received 420 mg of ibrutinib (oral, capsule) daily; and 375 mg/m^2 of 
rituximab (intravenous on days 1, 8, 15, and 22) per protocol. The 1st dose of the study drug ibrutinib was initiated 
on 27-FEB-2014. The first dose of rituximab was initiated on 27-MAR-2014. The last dose of ibrutinib prior to event 
onset was administered on 15-MAY-2014. The last dose of rituximab prior to event onset was administered on 24-
APR-2014. Concomitant medications taken within 30 days of the event included acyclovir and Prevacid 
(lansoprazole).
On 05-MAY-2014 (Cycle 3, Day 12), the subject experienced left-sided numbness and had difficulty with holding 
objects in her left hand. She also had an unsteady gait (NCI-CTCAE Grade 2). Her symptoms were initially 
transient, but became progressively worse and persistent. The subject's husband reported that her speech was 
slow with left facial droop. 
On 15-May-2014 (Cycle 3 Day 21), the subject's husband telephoned the primary care nurse to report symptoms of 
confusion, unsteady gait, extremity weakness, left sided weakness and fatigue (NCI-CTCAE Grade 3). The 
husband was directed to bring her to the emergency room (ER), but it was declined. On 16-May-2014, the patient 
was evaluated at the cancer center for the above symptoms and she was referred for a magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) of the brain. Study therapy with ibrutinib was held at this time. On (b) (6)  an MRI of brain 
was performed, the results showed a prominent region of periventricular leukomalacia in the right parietal region 
with no diffusion restriction which was possibly related to a subtle acute/subacute non-hemorrhagic periventricular 
infraction of the left parietal lobe. The subject was taken to the emergency room (ER). In the ER, she was afebrile, 
alert, and well-oriented. Her vital signs were stable. On neurologic exam, she had normal reflexes with no cranial 
nerve deficit. Electrocardiogram (ECG) was normal. On(b) (6)  (b)(6)  days after starting the first dose of 
ibrutinib, the subject was admitted to the hospital for further neurological work up and a neurological consult was 
obtained. Her neurologic exam revealed facial asymmetry, left sided weakness (NCI-CTCAE Grade 2), and a 
decreased sensation on the left side (CTCAE Grade 2). A bilateral carotid duplex showed no evidence of carotid 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 556 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
stenosis. A transthoracic echocardiogram revealed a decreased left ejection fraction of 55-65% with no shunt. The 
following day the subject remained stable with no neurologic deficit. She underwent a lumbar puncture, which was 
positive for John Cunningham virus (JC) virus identified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), confirming the 
diagnosis of JC virus infection resulting in progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) (NCI-CTCAE Grade 
3). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis revealed a protein of 30 mg/dl, glucose of 59 mg/dl, and a red blood cell 
count of <1 cells/ul (reference ranges not provided). CSF bacterial culture was negative. Treatment included 
mirtazapine for PML and physical therapy for gait assessment. On (b) (6)  a brain MRI found a stable 
appearance of prominent region of hypo-intense signal right parietal which showed no evidence of mass effect or 
contrast enhancement. On (b) (6)  the subject was discharged to a rehabilitation facility. The outcome of 
PML, fatigue, muscle weakness left-sided, peripheral sensory neuropathy, and gait disturbance was not 
recovered/not resolved at the time of this report. 
Investigator's assessment: The investigator assessed the events of PML, fatigue, muscle weakness left-sided, 
peripheral sensory neuropathy, and gait disturbance as possibly related to ibrutinib. 
The investigator assessed the events of PML, muscle weakness left-sided, peripheral sensory neuropathy, and gait
disturbance as probably related to rituximab.
The investigator assessed the event of fatigue as possibly related to rituximab.
Additional information was received from the investigator on 23-JUN-2014. 
The verbatim event term of PML was amended to encephalopathy (NCI-CTCAE Grade 4). The event onset date for
peripheral sensory neuropathy, gait disturbance and fatigue was updated to (b) (6)  (previously reported as 
05-MAY-2014). On 16-MAY-2014, the subject was permanently removed from the protocol. During the course of 
her stay at the rehabilitation facility, the left-sided weakness had worsened; and she also experienced a cognitive 
deficit, decreased visual perception and decreased activity tolerance. On 03-JUN-2014, she was transferred to a 
convalescent home. 
Investigator's assessment: The investigator assessed the event of encephalopathy as possibly related to ibrutinib. 
The investigator assessed the events of peripheral sensory neuropathy and gait disturbance as unlikely related to 
ibrutinib (previously possibly related). The investigator assessed the event of encephalopathy as probably related to
rituximab. The investigator assessed the events of peripheral sensory neuropathy and gait disturbance as possibly 
related to rituximab (previously probably related).
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 557 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Additional information was received from the investigator on 15-SEP-2014. The verbatim event term of 
encephalopathy was amended back to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (NCI-CTCAE Grade 4) (as it 
was previously reported). 
Additional information was received from the investigator on 18-SEP-2014. On an unknown date, the subject 
expired from progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) (details unspecified). It was unknown if an autopsy 
was performed. 
Additional information was received from the investigator on 26-SEP-2014. 
The progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy NCI-CTCAE Grade was amended to 5 (previously reported as 
grade 3). 
On 19-May-2014, the subject was withdrawn from the protocol. Per investigator, the subject was initially discharged 
and transferred to convalescent home (rehabilitation center), and then she was sent to her home to receive hospice
care services. Since then, the investigator did not receive any updates on the subject's status. Later it came to the 
investigator's awareness through an obituary in the newspaper on (b) (6)  that the subject died on (b) (6)
(b) (6)
According to the treating physician, the death could be possibly related to PML. No autopsy was performed and no 
death note was received from the site. The investigator additionally assessed PML, fatigue, peripheral sensory 
neuropathy and gait disturbance as possibly related to the pre-existing condition of CLL.
Additional information was received from the investigator on 16-OCT-2014. 
The investigator assessed the events of PML as possibly related to ibrutinib and probably related the Rituximab. 
Fatigue was assessed as possibly related to ibrutinib and Rituximab. The gait disturbance and peripheral sensory 
neuropathy was assessed as unlikely related to ibrutinib but possibly related to Rituximab. The events of PML, 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 558 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
fatigue, peripheral sensory neuropathy and gait disturbance were assessed as possibly related to the pre-existing 
disease condition of CLL. The investigator assessed the event of PML as not related to acyclovir. The investigator 
assessed the events of peripheral sensory neuropathy, gait disturbance and fatigue as unlikely related to acyclovir. 
The investigator assessed the event of PML as not related to Prevacid. The investigator assessed the events of 
peripheral sensory neuropathy, gait disturbance and fatigue as unlikely related to Prevacid. The National Cancer 
institute (NCI) assessed the PML and fatigue as possibly related to ibrutinib and the peripheral sensory neuropathy 
and gait disturbance as unlikely related to ibrutinib. The event of PML was assessed as probably related to 
rituximab and the peripheral sensory neuropathy, gait disturbance and fatigue as possibly related to rituximab. The 
events of PML, peripheral sensory neuropathy, gait disturbance and fatigue were assessed as possibly related to 
the pre-existing disease condition of CLL. The event the PML was assessed as not related to acyclovir and the 
events of peripheral sensory neuropathy, gait disturbance and fatigue as unlikely related to acyclovir. The event of 
PML was assessed as not related to Prevacid, the events of the peripheral sensory neuropathy, gait disturbance 
and fatigue as unlikely related to Prevacid. NCI also assessed the peripheral sensory neuropathy, gait disturbance 
and fatigue as probably related to the PML. No further information is expected.