The subject (ID # (b) (6) ) is a 46-year-old female with a past medical history of depression and migraines who 
participated in and completed study (b) (6)
 Per protocol, the subject had been receiving AVONEX for at least one year prior to enrolling in (b)(6)
(b) (6)   She entered study(b) (6)
and received 7 doses of open-label natalizumab in combination with AVONEX with the last dose of 
natalizumab given on 18 January 2005.  She received a total of 37 doses of natalizumab in combination with 
AVONEX.
In December 2004, the subject experienced right-sided weakness and aphasia, which was initially considered an 
MS relapse.  An MRI revealed a left sided 2 cm non-enhancing tumorfactant lesion. She was treated with two 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 593 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
courses of steroids, one in December 2004 and one in January 2005.  Her symptoms continued to worsen over the 
next few weeks with altered mental status and increased spasticity, and she was hospitalized on (b) (6)
  Neurological examination showed a non-responsive subject with right gaze preference, decorticate posturing, up 
going toes, and no gag reflex. An MRI showed ?deep white matter, small vessel ischemic changes within the 
centrum semiovale periventricular regions, high signal throughout portions of the left temporal and left parietal lobes
extending across the corpus callosum into the right frontal lobe.?  This MRI appearance suggested a differential 
diagnosis that included PML.  Complete blood count was significant for a WBC of 14,000 and 29,000 cells/?L on (b)(6)
(b) (6)  and (b) (6)  respectively (normal range 3,500-10,600 cells/?l). A lumbar puncture revealed 
glucose of 53 mg/dL (normal range 15-45) and protein of 90 mg/dL (normal range 40-70).  Viral PCR testing of the 
cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) was positive for JC virus.  HIV testing via Elisa was negative. The subject was treated 
with intravenous methylprednisolone but her condition continued to decline and she was transferred to a hospice.
The subject died on (b) (6)
AVONEX neutralizing antibody status and natalizumab antibody status were negative at Baseline and Weeks 24, 
48 and 72.
Concomitant medications at the time of the event included vitamins, ranitidine, donepezil, tizanidine, zolpidem, and 
ibuprofen.
Update 21 September 2005:  Follow-up information confirmed that the subject received a total of 37 doses of 
natalizumab.
Update 14 May 2014: This case was reported via the literature B.K. Kleinschmidt-DeMasters, Tyler K.L: 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy Complicating Treatment with Natalizumab and Interferon Beta-1a for 
Multiple Sclerosis. N Engl J Med 2005; 353:369-74. The author reported the following additional information. MS 
history: In June 1999 the 41-year-old, right-handed woman began to have numbness and burning pain in her right 
foot and leg and tingling numbness and clumsiness in her right hand . She had a history of migraine and transient 
numbness of the left hand. A neurologic examination revealed increased tone on her right side and generalized 
hyperreflexia (3+) with normal plantar responses. In Sep 1999, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with contrast 
medium showed four small, nonenhancing foci of increased signal in the corona radiata bilaterally on the fluid-
attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences. Electromyography and nerve-conduction studies showed no 
abnormalities. Six weeks later, her leg symptoms had improved, but she reported new visual blurring in her right 
eye. The visual acuity of the right eye was 20/100, and that of the left was 20/15. Examination of cerebrospinal fluid 
in Nov 1999 showed 1 white cell per cubic millimeter, 55 mg of protein per deciliter, and normal values for glucose 
(64 mg per deciliter [3.6 mmol per liter]), IgG (3.2 mg per deciliter), the IgG index (0.57), and the IgGsynthesis rate 
(0.3 mg per 24 hours). No oligoclonal bands were detected in a specimen of cerebrospinal fluid that was 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 594 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
concentrated by a factor of 80. Levels of vitamin B12 and folate were normal, tests for antinuclear antibodies and 
anticentromere antibodies were negative, and thyroid-function tests were normal. A complete blood count was also 
normal, except for mild leukocytosis (11,200 cells per cubic millimeter). In Jan 2000, MRI showed two new 
nonenhancing parietal lesions with increased FLAIR signal and decreased T1 -weighted signal. In Feb 2000, the 
patient reported that her vision was normal and that her right-sided numbness had nearly resolved. She began 
receiving 30 ?g of interferon beta-1a (IM, QW) from Feb 2000, tizanidine, calcium, magnesium, and vitamins B, C, 
and E for presumed multiple sclerosis. In May 2000, she began taking tamsulosin for difficulty with bladder 
emptying and citalopram for depression. In Mar 2001, the patient noted worsening vision, band-like paresthesias 
around her back and abdomen, and increasing weakness and spasticity of her legs. The strength of both legs was 
mildly decreased (4+/5), and her gait was slightly spastic, although her deep tendon reflexes were normal. She 
received 500 mg of methylprednisolone twice daily intravenously for five days (16 Mar to 20 Mar 2001) for a 
suspected exacerbation of multiple sclerosis. In Sep 2001, she reported some decline in fine motor skills in her 
hands and worsening spasticity in her legs as well as some decline in cognition, including short-term memory, and 
began taking donepezil. She had a score of 2.5 on the Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) in Mar 
2002 (range of scores, 0 to 10, with higher scores indicating a greater degree of disability). In Apr 2002, the patient 
was enrolled in a randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicentre study designed to determine the 
safety and efficacy of natalizumab combined with interferon beta-1a in patients with relapsing?remitting multiple 
sclerosis (the Biogen Idec and Elan 1802 SENTINEL trial). At the time of enrollment, the patient underwent a T2 -
weighted MRI which showed approximately nine lesions and her EDSS score was 0. She continued to take 30 ?g of
interferon beta-1a intramuscularly weekly throughout the study. Additional medications at study entry included 
citalopram, rofecoxib, and tramadol in combination with acetaminophen. The patient received a total of 30 doses of 
natalizumab between 12 Apr 2002 (date discrepant), and 09 Jul 2004. She also received tizanidine, donepezil, and 
briefly, galantamine. In July 2004, she was enrolled in an open-label extension study (Biogen Idec/Elan 1808) and 
received seven additional 300-mg doses of natalizumab at four-week intervals, with the last dose given on 18 Jan 
2005. No antibodies developed against either interferon beta-1a or natalizumab. Pharmacokinetic studies showed 
that the clearance of natalizumab in the patient (0.0136 liter per hour) was similar to the median value in the study 
population (0.0138 liter per hour). A follow-up T 2 -weighted MRI study in April 2003 showed five new or enlarging 
lesions. A similar study in April 2004 showed one new or enlarging lesion. No enhancing lesions were noted. 
Unfortunately, these MRI scans were not available for review, and the reports specified only the number of lesions, 
not the location. No clinical or suspected relapses of multiple sclerosis were identified, and the patient?s EDSS 
score remained between 0 and 2 through July 2004. In Nov 2004, the patient reported new problems with hand?eye
coordination, including difficulty writing and typing, as well as problems with her speech. A mental-status 
examination performed at that time showed a decreased fund of in-formation, minor errors on a drawing of a three 
dimensional cube and on tests of mathematical skills, and reduced immediate recall on a word learning test. Her 
cranial nerves were normal. Her strength was intact, but she had mildly increased tone in her legs and hyperactive 
(3+) reflexes bilaterally. In Dec 2004, right-sided numbness developed and word-finding difficulty increased. The 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 595 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
patient had difficulty carrying on a conversation and became increasingly forgetful. A neurologic examination 
revealed difficulty with expressive speech, with preserved comprehension, some right?left confusion, irregular 
saccadic eye movements, and increased tone on her right side. She received methylprednisolone (500 mg 
intravenously twice daily) from 15 Dec to 19 Dec 2004. An MRI study performed on 15 Dec [2004] showed a large 
area of increased T2 -weighted and decreased T1-weighted signal in the left frontal lobe posteriorly involving the 
subcortical white matter and extending into the centrum semiovale and corona radiata, without enhancement or 
mass effect. A second area of abnormal signal was noted in the right posterior parietal lobe. On 29 Dec 2004, a 
right-sided hemiparesis with an extensor plantar response was noted. On 05 Jan 2005, the patient?s condition was 
judged to be worse, with increasing right-sided hemiparesis and worsening nonfluent aphasia. Her right-arm 
strength was 0/5, and her right-leg strength was 2/5 proximally and 0/5 distally. On the assumption that her clinical 
deterioration represented an exacerbation of multiple sclerosis, she received another five-day course of 
methylprednisolone, beginning on 05 Jan 2005 (500 mg intravenously twice daily). Her last dose of natalizumab 
was given on 18 Jan 2005. Interferon beta-1a was discontinued on an unknown date in Jan 2005 (date discrepant). 
On 24 Jan 2005, her white-cell count was 14,400 per cubic millimeter (77 percent neutrophils, 18 percent 
lymphocytes, 4 percent monocytes, and 1 percent eosinophils), with an absolute lymphocyte count of 2500 per 
cubic millimeter. The patient?s neurologic status continued to decline, and she was hospitalized on (b) (6)
On admission, she was unresponsive, with a right-sided gaze preference. She had a marked spastic right-sided 
hemiplegia and some left-sided weakness. An MRI scan obtained on (b) (6)  (previously reported) showed a 
dramatic increase in the extent of the high T2 -weighted and low T1-weighted signal abnormalities in the left 
hemisphere, with extension of the lesion to the frontal, parietal, and temporal lobes and across the corpus callosum
to the right frontal lobe. New midbrain and pontine lesions were also present. There was no enhancement or mass 
effect. At admission, the patient had a white cell count of 14,000 per cubic millimeter (77 percent neutrophils, 16 
percent lymphocytes, 6 percent monocytes, and 1 percent eosinophils and basophils). Her absolute lymphocyte 
count was normal (2300 cells per cubic millimeter). An examination of cerebrospinal fluid on 14 Feb 2005, revealed 
the following values: 53 mg of protein per deciliter, 90 mg of glucose per deciliter (5.0 mmol per liter), 4.3 mg of IgG
per deciliter, an IgG index of 0.49, a ratio of IgG to albumin of 0.08, and an IgG-synthesis rate of 1.78 mg per 24 
hours. No oligoclonal bands were noted. The results of Gram?s staining of a cerebrospinal fluid sample were 
unremarkable. A polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) assay of cerebrospinal fluid for herpes sim-plex virus was 
negative, as were tests for West Nile virus IgG and IgM, eastern equine encephalomyelitis virus IgG and IgM, 
Borrelia burgdorferi IgG and IgM, and cryptococcal antigen and stains and cultures for bacteria, fungi, and acid-fast 
bacilli. A test for serum antibody against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) type 1 and 2 was nonreactive. CD4+ 
and CD8+ T-cell counts were not assessed, but at no time was either absolute or relative lymphopenia noted. The 
treating neurologist suspected PML, and a cerebrospinal fluid sample sent to the Mayo Medical Laboratories 
(Rochester, Minn.) for JC virus PCR testing was positive. The patient died on(b) (6)  she was 46 years old. 
Postmortem examination showed bilateral aspiration pneumonia (onset unknown) and cachexia (onset unknown). 
There was prominent sinus histiocytosis of the lymph nodes and possible depletion of CD8+ T cells in comparison 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 596 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
with the levels of CD4+ T cells, probably owing to severe terminal debilitation. Examination of the bone marrow 
showed a clinically significant leftward shift in granulocytic maturation. All other systemic organs were histologically 
normal; no non-CNS opportunistic infections were found. Postmortem blood samples were not tested for JC virus 
DNA or antibody. The formalin-fixed, 1140-g brain was fluctuant on palpation over a large portion of the anterior left 
hemisphere; no discoloration or meningeal opacification was present. On coronal sectioning, this softened area 
corresponded to massive, coalescent areas of severe cavitation involving most of the left frontoparietal white 
matter, leaving only a ribbonlike strip of intact overlying cortex. Smaller, noncavitated, ovoid areas of discoloration, 
a typical feature of PML, studded the remaining lefthemispheric white matter, particularly at the junctions between 
cortical gray matter and white matter, and involved the right superior frontal gyrus . A 7-mm lesion was identified in 
the left cerebraln peduncle. No multiple-sclerosis plaques were discernible in the corona radiata. The brain stem, 
spinal cord, and optic chiasm were submitted in toto for histologic examination. Sections (total, 73 blocks) from the 
brain and spinal cord were stained with hematoxylin and eosin, with one fourth of the sections also stained with 
Luxol fast blue and periodic acid?Schiff for myelin. All sections were devoid of acute anoxic injury and vasculitis 
Areas of PML showed near-total loss of myelin, an influx of macrophages, and numerous reactive astrocytes, but 
no perivascular or parenchymal lymphocytic inflammation. Astrocytes with bizarre, enlarged hyperchromatic nuclei, 
a typical finding in PML, were common, even in smaller lesions. There were large numbers of oligodendrocytes with
the classic violaceous intranuclear inclusions of PML. Cells with inclusions had a strong positive signal for JC virus 
DNA on in situ hybridization (probe 40847, Enzo Life Sciences). In addition to the PML lesions seen on gross 
examination, myriad minute lesions were easily identified microscopically in virtually every section examined from 
the left cerebral hemisphere, as well as in most of the sections from the right side and all of the brain-stem 
sections. PML was found only focally in the cerebellum; no granule-cell depletion was seen. The optic nerve, 
chiasm, and spinal cord contained neither PML lesions nor multiple-sclerosis demyelinating lesions. Examination of
the spinal cord showed unilateral wallerian degeneration that was due to the cavitated lesions involving the left 
motor strip and internal capsule. Remote cortical microinfarctions were found in the right superior frontal and 
parietal gyri and splenium of the corpus callosum. Our patient received interferon beta-1a for nearly five years and 
received combined therapy with natalizumab and interferon beta-1a for just over two years as part of the 
SENTINEL trial. The authors cannot rule out a potential contributory role of interferon beta-1a in the genesis of this 
patient?s PML. However, to date, there have been no reported cases of PML in patients receiving interferon beta-
1a monotherapy. The diagnosis of PML was established on the basis of a positive PCR assay for JC viral DNA in 
cerebrospinal fluid in a patient with clinical and neuroimaging findings that were typical of PML, and the diagnosis 
was confirmed at autopsy. The severity and extent of disease were dramatic. Nearly every tissue section from 
bilateral cerebral hemispheres that we examined had either macroscopic or microscopic PML lesions, ranging from
minute to massive in size. There was extensive tissue destruction and cavitation in the left frontoparietal area, and 
the lesions contained large numbers of oligodendrocytes with inclusions. No inflammatory response was present. 
Although no formal quantitation was performed, the extent of the PML involvement was similar to or exceeded that 
seen in HIV-infected patients before the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy. Causlaity was not assessed. 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 597 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
No additional information was reported.
Update 27 Jun 2014: A report was received via the literature Langer-Gould A, Atlas S.W, Green A.J, Bolle A.W and
Pelletier D. Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy in a Patient Treated with Natalizumab. N Engl J Med 
2005; 353:375-381. 28 Jul 2005. DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa051847. The author reported that the patient received 
combination treatment with Natalizumab and interferon beta-1a and developed PML. No additional information was 
provided.
Update 02 Jul 2014: This case was reported via the literature: Carruthers, R.L and Berger J. Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy and JC Virus-related disease in modern neurology practice. Multiple Sclerosis and Related 
Disorders  Vol. 3, Issue 4.  DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.msard.2014.01.005. No new additional information was 
reported.
Update 06 Jul 2014: This case was reported via the literature: Nicholas J.A, Racke M.C, Imitola J,  Boster A.L. 
First-line natalizumab in multiple sclerosis: rationale, patient selection, benefits and risks.Ther Adv Chronic Dis. Mar
2014; 5(2): 62?68. doi:  10.1177/2040622313514790. The author reported that the patient enrolled in the 
SENTINEL trial in which TYSABRI [NTZ] and AVONEX [IFN-B] were combined, had experienced PML (onset 
unknown) as referenced in the article Kleinschmidt-DeMasters and Tyler (2005) (previously reported).