AER 1422591 is a spontaneous case, received on 19/Jun/2014 from a physician via a company representative and 
concerns a 73 year old female patient who developed pain in lower limbs, numbness in the legs, increased C - 
reactive protein and suspected vasculitis, joint pain, worsening of general condition, profuse prespiration, recurrent 
febrile episodes, John cunningham virus in urine and died due to progression of polyneuropathy, peroneal paresis, 
progression of pulmonary changes (unk diagnosis), thrombus mass in lungs and heart, acute pneumonia, non 
specific interstitial pneumonia type changes of the lungs progressed and cytomegalovirus infection while being 
treated with rituximab (MabThera).
Patient's medical history included mild degree polyneuropathy and very mild degree non-specific interstitial 
pneumonia (NSIP) type of lung fibrosis. Polyneuropathy of lower limbs had not progressed during recent years. 
Also fibrosis of lungs had been stable for years.The concomitant medications included alendronate, ibuprofen, 
calcium carbonate/cholecalciferol, zopiclone, pregabalin, prednisolone, pantoprazole sodium, valaciclovir 
hydrochloride  for suspect chronic herpes zoster infection of gluteal ulcer, cyanocobalamin/pyridoxine 
hydrochloride/thiamine hydrochloride, gold sodium thiomalate, methotrexate, hydroxychloroquine sulfate and 
paracetamol. On 08/Jan/2014 leukocytes were 13.1, neutrophils were 10.03. On 10/Feb/2014 Immunoglobulin M 
was 2.42. Past drugs included sulfasalazine, golimumab, etanercept, leflunomide. No concurrent conditions was 
reported.
On 03/Mar/2014, the patient started intravenous (IV) rituximab infusion 1000mg every two weeks for seropositive 
rheumatoid arthritis positive to citrulline antibodies. Approximately one week after the rituximab infusion, she 
developed severe pain to lower limbs. Polyneuropathy started to progress very strongly and experienced recurrent 
febrile episode. On 17/Mar/2014, therapy with rituximab was discontinued. On 22/Mar/2014, she experienced joint 
pain, profuse pain and worsening of general condition. On 28Mar/2014, she experienced increased c reactive 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 589 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
protein (the highest level was reported as 94). On 29/Mar/2014, cytomegalovirus (CMV) PCR was negative, CMV 
below 137. On 01/Apr/2014  Immunoglobulin M was 1.2.  On 05/Jun/2014, she developed transparent peroneal 
paresis and numbness of the legs below the knee. Also her pulmonary changes started to progress. On 
09/Jun/2014, she had JC (John Cunninghum virus) urine test was performed which was positive.  On 10/Jun/2014 
complement component 3 was 0.76 assessed by physician as normal and complement component 4 was 0.03 
assessed by physician as low. On 11/Jun/2014 leucocytes were 11.3. On 20/Jun/2014 Neutrophils were 12.9. On 
23/Jun/2014,  CMV PCR was again found to be negative (179). It was reported, the patient had experienced mild 
cytomegalovirus infection.  In Jun/2014, brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed. No signs of PML 
or pathological suggestive was detected. JC virus was not tested from the cerebrospinal fluid. It was reported that, 
already in two months she had a clear progression of pulmonary changes (unk diagnosis) and non specific 
interstitial pneumonia type changes of the lungs progressed In histopathologic diagnosis, strong fibrotic changes 
were found. Hyaline membranes were found which fit in alveolar damage. Clearly increased ground glass changes 
were found in thorax image taken. High-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) of lungs detected that 
complement 3 (C3) was normal and complement 4 (C4) was low. She was not detected cryoglobulinemia or 
Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. It was stated that, no plasmapheresis was performed. It was planned to 
perform a nerve biopsy to her due to the diagnosis of vasculitis. On an unspecified date. she died due to 
progression of polyneuropathy, peroneal paresis and progression of pulmonary changes (unk diagnosis) she 
experienced no central symptoms Later, she developed acute pneumonia and thrombus mass in lungs and heart. 
On (b) (6)  she died. It was unknown if autopsy was performed or not. 
At the time of the death, the event pain in lower limbs and suspected vasculitis was persisting and the outcome of 
the events numbness in the legs, increased C - reactive protein, John cunningham virus in urine, joint pain, 
worsening of general condition, profuse prespiration, recurrent febrile episodes, cytomegalovirus infection were not 
reported and for suspected vasculitis it was unknown.
The physician assessed the causal relationship of pain in lower limbs, numbness in the legs, increased C - reactive 
protein, joint pain, worsening of general condition, profuse prespiration, recurrent febrile episodes, John 
cunningham virus in urine, progression of polyneuropathy, peroneal paresis, progression of pulmonary changes 
(unk diagnosis), thrombus mass in lungs and heart, acute pneumonia, non specific interstitial pneumonia type 
changes of the lungs progressed  while being treated with rituximab as probably related. The causality for 
cytomegalovirus infection was not reported with rituximab.
No further information was provided. 
Follow up information was received 24/Jul/2014. Following information was added to the case: Patient died and 
suspected vasculitis outcome (updated from not reported to persisting).
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 590 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Additional information was received on 15/Aug/2014. Following information was added to the case: Date of birth of 
the patient, therapy start date for rituximab. Onset date for Peroneal paresis, Progression of pulmonary changes 
and Increased C reactive protein. New events joint pain, worsening of general condition, profuse prespiration, 
recurrent febrile episodes, John cunningham virus in urine, thrombus mass in lungs and heart, acute pneumonia, 
non specific interstitial pneumonia type changes of the lungs progressed  while being treated with rituximab. CRP 
lab value was updated from 100 to 94. outcome of suspected vasculitis updated to unknown (previously not 
reported). Date of death ((b) (6) ).
The following information, originally received on 15/Aug/2014, was corrected using the latest received date of the 
previous report (15/Aug/2014): Details of the event John cunningham virus in urine were amended.
Follow up information was received on 23/Oct/2014 and following information was added to the case: Event 
(cytomegalovirus infection), concomitant medication (gold sodium thiomalate, methotrexate, hydroxychloroquine 
sulfate), past drug (sulfasalazine, golimumab, etanercept, leflunomide), event description was updated.