For reference purposes, this report was previously submitted as Acorda MCN ACO_01700_2010.
This initial report was received from a registered nurse (via Acorda sales representative) on 05-Aug-2010. 
Additional information was obtained from the nurse on 06-Aug-2010. Additional information was obtained from the 
patient on 09-Aug-2010.  Additional information was provided by the nurse and physician on 16-Aug-2010:
A registered nurse (with additional information provided by the patient and a physician) reported that a 47 year old 
male consumer with a history of anxiety and "can't sleep", received oral dalfampridine tablets (Ampyra), 10 mg 
twice daily, for walking related to multiple sclerosis. The patient had no history of the following: personal or family 
history of seizures or epilepsy, depression, stroke, syncope, central nervous system (CNS) infection, no significant 
dietary changes in the past 30 days, no history of alcohol or illicit drug abuse , no recent progression of disease or 
MS relapse, abnormal renal function, or concurrent/recent urinary tract infection. Concurrently, he was receiving 
Neurontin, Xanax, Ambien, Tysabri, Provigil, vitamin D and nortriptyline . No new medications had bean started in 
the past 30 days and the patient had not recently been treated with steroids. The patient also had not recently been 
sick or hospitalized.  Therapy with Ampyra was initiated on 12-Mar-2010. The patient had never used a 
compounded formulation of the product. Ampyra was taken as prescribed and the tablets were not broken, 
cut,crushed, chewed, or dissolved in water. During Ampyra therapy, the patient's mobility increased and he went 
from being dependent on a walking stick to being completely independent. On 30-Jul-2010, the patient received an 
Ampyra dose between 8 and 10 am. (b) (6)  later, (b) (6)  the patient experienced seizure and 
problem breathing, and was taken to the hospital emergency room (BR). During the event, the patient had difficulty 
breathing, was hyperventilating, and his head felt fuzzy/cloudy. The patient reported that he experienced no tongue 
biting, no loss of bowel or bladder function, and no loss of consciousness. The patient added that he had not 
experienced any nausea, vomiting, or CNS related events prior to the event.  The patient told his mother to call an 
ambulance. At the ER on (b) (6)  the patient had a chest x-ray and blood work tests which did not show 
anything relevant". The seizure and problem breathing had resolved in the hospital ER on (b) (6)  and the 
patient was released on the same day. It was unknown if drug plasma levels were obtained and no creatinine 
clearance levels were available. The patient had full recollection of the event. He reported that the ER physician did 
not think he had a "seizure", but advised the patient to discontinue the Ampyra until he (the patient) could follow up 
with his own neurologist. The patient decided to continue taking Ampyra, but at a lower dose of 10 mg once daily. 
An electroencephalogram (EEG) performed on 05-Aug-2010 indicated that the patient had also been unresponsive 
and off balance at the time of the event . The neurologist's impression of the final EEG report was described as 
follows: Mildly abnormal tracing due to subtle intrusions of sharply contoured theta rhythms involving the left 
posterior quadrant. Intermixed were a few sharp forms and two or three possible sharp waves in the left temporo-
occipital region. They were somewhat ill formed and should be taken with caution.  Background activities were 
within normal limits. The excess low voltage beta activity could signify medication related effect. The findings 
indicate a possible left posterior quadrant abnormality and raise suspicion concerning a possible epileptogenic 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 670 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
focus there, though the evidence for this is quite modest. A repeat study and/or a 24 - hour ambulatory study could 
be considered to further pursue these findings. Review of the patient's hyperventilation and intermittent photic 
stimulation produced no abnormalities. The cardiac monitor showed probable normal sinus rhythm at 54 beats per 
minute. The neurologist informed the patient that the EEG test result was -abnormal" and the patient probably had 
partial seizure". The final diagnosis for this event was seizure. The neurologist advised the patient to stop taking 
Ampyra and the final dose was received on O5-Aug-2010. According to the reporting nurse, it was reasonably 
possible that the seizure was related to Ampyra use. At the time of this report, no additional information was 
available.
Convulsion was considered medically significant.
Follow up information was received from a neurologist via follow up form on 14-Sep-20l0.
Further information was provided regarding the patient's medical history, concomitant medications, the action taken
with the suspect drug, adverse events.
The physician reported that the patient had a history of neuropathic pain, anxiety, spasticity, insomnia, fatigue due 
to multiple sclerosis and relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis and all were concurrent conditions. Also provided 
was dose, frequency, route, therapy dates and indications for concomitant medications. The patient did not have a 
congenital anomaly or birth defect and the patient did not die as a result of the event. The suspect drug worked the 
way it was expected to and there was no problem with the product's appearance, smell, taste condition or 
packaging. The adverse event required an emergency room visit, but the patient was not hospitalized as a result of 
the event. Baclofen was reported as an additional concurrent medication. Neither drug therapy nor non drug 
therapy were required to treat the patient and the physician was unsure of the final diagnosis of the patient's 
condition. The events did not cause persistent or significant disability or incapacitation. The physician did not 
consider the events life threatening or medically significant. The patient restarted therapy with Ampyra (dosage, 
strength and frequency unknown) on 30 -AUG-2010 after seeing a seizure specialist. The event did not recur. At 
the time of this report, no additional information was available.
Follow up was received from a health care provider (nurse) on 15-Mar-2011.
The nurse stated that the patient was seen by a seizure specialist, on 30 Aug-2010.  According to the patient's 
medical record, the seizure specialist did not feel that the patient had experienced a seizure, but rather a flare-up of
his MS (multiple sclerosis).  The seizure specialist started the patient back on Ampyra 10 mg bid and "he had been 
doing fine ever since".
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 671 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Due to the follow up information, the preferred term of convulsion has been changed to multiple sclerosis relapse.
This case was medically reviewed. Multiple sclerosis relapse was considered medically significant.
Follow-up information was received from a healthcare professional (physician's nurse) on 12-Oct-2012 in the form 
of medical records.
Medical history included secondary progressive multiple sclerosis with significant weakness, gait instability, bladder 
problems, fatigue, bladder urgency, mood disorder, constipation, and an allergy to shellfish and Neurontin. The 
patient also, in the past, had been quite sensitive to heat and had become significantly weak in the heat. He 
recalled he felt limp, weak, tired, and in a fog after being outside in the heat for just a few minutes, prior to 
treatment with Ampyra. The patient does not smoke cigarettes or drink alcohol. The patient had no family members
with seizures. Additional concomitant medications included Advil, Aleve, Zoloft, Omega 3 fish oil, vitamin C, vitamin 
B, multivitamin, Citrucel, and Miralax. 
Per medical records dated 30-Aug-2010, the patient presented for further evaluation of an episode on (b) (6)
(b) (6)  The patient recalled that he was in his driveway, talking to his daughter, and it was particularly hot that day. In
the past, he had been quite sensitive to heat and had become significantly weak in the heat. His daughter reminded
him to go inside, and he walked to the door, feeling tired and weak already. He remembered walking up to the door 
and pausing, as he felt that his legs were unable to carry him further because he would collapse. His wife found him
standing outside five minutes later and helped him inside. He sat down on the couch to watch the news and 
remembered saying something odd, such as, "These people go to the supermarket with credit cards to buy drugs." 
While the sentence was loosely connected to a news story, it had no real relevance, and both he and his wife 
admitted that it was an odd thing to say. He next recalled feeling even more tired, weak, and having had some 
difficulty breathing. He collapsed into the "cough" and was aware of everything that was happening around him, but 
things felt distant, and he felt that he was unable to move his body in response to what was being asked of him. He 
was brought to the hospital for this and still had full recall of conversations being had and feeling drowsy and weak, 
as if he was "in and out of a nap." After about five hours, he was feeling a bit better and again attributed the whole 
episode to feeling overheated and possibly dehydrated. In retrospect, this had happened before in the heat, even 
before treatment with Ampyra, and he had felt limp, weak, tired, and in a fog after being outside in the heat for just 
a few minutes. His strategy for management of these issues included cooling with ice. His family described no 
particular bizarre behavior and no particular unresponsiveness, just diminished responsiveness during the episode. 
He described no periods of amnesia for the event, and his family had told him prior to this visit that this indeed was 
true. He had no strange smells, tastes, auditory or visual phenomena, and had never had a history of odd staring 
spells, unexplained loss of consciousness, jerking of the limbs, nocturnal events, unexplained tongue bites, or sore 
muscles.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 672 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
From medical records dated 30-Aug-2010, a review of systems was negative with the exception of depression, 
anxiety, chronic unsteadiness on his feet, and the complaints related to multiple sclerosis. Additionally, the patient 
had what he termed "internal tremors," tremulousness inside, not necessarily detectable to other individuals, and 
further he had pseudoradiculopathic pain down the left arm, which was shock-like and occasionally went up the 
head. The patient's blood pressure was 118/65, heart rate 68, and respiration's were 14. 
From medical records dated 30-Aug-2010, it was noted Ampyra had helped the patient's walking significantly, but 
with a recent questionable seizure. The patient's neurological examination appeared similar to examinations 
described in "previous notes." The episode in question which occurred on (b) (6)  did not sound strongly like a
seizure, as the patient described full body weakness and exhaustion, but with retained consciousness and memory 
for the event despite poor communication due to feeling fatigued and distant. It was noted that this had happened 
before when he was in the heat for too long, and the physician did not believe it was related to the Ampyra. The 
patient had an EEG performed on 05-Aug-2010, which demonstrated some sharply contoured theta rhythms in the 
left posterior quadriceps and several ill-formed sharp waves in the left temporo-occipital region. Again, while a left 
posterior quadrant central nervous system abnormality is possible, given this abnormal read, the evidence of 
epilepsy was somewhat minimal. Given the unconvincing history and borderline EEG, the physician would not 
recommend treatment with an anticonvulsant at this point. It was noted that if the patient did have an episode of 
loss of consciousness or an evolution of symptoms more suggestive of seizures, the physician may reconsider and 
particularly reconsider the importance of the mildly abnormal EEG. With regard to the Ampyra, the physician did not
believe the patient had a clinical seizure, and therefore saw no contraindication to continuing the medication. Per 
the physician, the benefits from Ampyra had been an improvement in walking and decreased functional disability. 
The patient was advised of typical "seizure" symptoms and when to seek medical attention should he develop a 
seizure in the future. Otherwise, the patient was to be seen on an as needed basis. 
Medical records dated 08-Sep-2010 indicated the patient restarted Ampyra, 10 mg twice daily, on an unspecified 
date in 2010, after he had seen another physician, who did not feel that the patient had a seizure. It was noted that 
the findings on the EEG were relatively soft, and the history was not very convincing. The patient was very 
interested in going back on Ampyra, and since he had been back, he felt "one hundred percent better" relative to 
his fatigue. The patient reported he felt stronger and felt less likely to fall.
Medical records dated 02-Mar-2011 indicated the patient received his 51st infusion of Tysabri and the patient had 
not had any recent relapses since being on Tysabri. The patient continued to work, but it seemed to be getting 
harder and harder for him.  The patient continued on Ampyra and his other medications.  At the time of this note, 
the patient experienced fatigue, spasticity, and a lot of "internal tremors," for which he was started on Topamax, 
which seemed to work for him. It was noted the patient was JC Virus antibody positive, and the patient's risks may 
be high than most people, perhaps in the range of 1/500. The patient understood this, and given that he had been 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 673 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
relatively stable on Tysabri, the patient wished to continue on it and accepted the risk. The patient was to return to 
the office on an as needed basis.
The patient was recovering from the events of collapsed, but was aware of everything, but things felt distant, 
diminished responsiveness during the episode, unable to move his body in response to what was being asked of 
him, feeling overheated, possibly dehydrated, felt that this legs were unable to carry him, said something odd that 
had no real relevance, tired, exhausted, weak, difficulty breathing, and poor communication due to feeling fatigued 
and distant. The outcome for the events of depression, anxiety, chronic unsteadiness on his feet, 
pseudoradiculopathic pain down the left arm, internal tremors, spasticity, and JC Virus antibody positive, fatigue 
were not provided. 
The unexpected therapeutic benefit of decreased functional disability, he felt strong, and felt less likely to fall will not
be coded due to Acorda coding conventions.
Follow-up information was received from a health care provider (nurse) on 05-Nov-2012.
The nurse reported that the patient had recovered from the following events: collapsed, felt distant, diminished 
responsiveness, unable to move his body in response to what was being asked of him, feeling overheated, possibly
dehydrated, legs were unable to carry him, and said something odd.  The nurse reported that the events 
disappeared after therapy was discontinued.   Ampyra was discontinued on 05-Aug-2010, and restarted on 30-Aug-
2010.  The nurse reported that the events did not reappear after Ampyra was restarted.  At the time of this report, 
Ampyra remained ongoing.  The nurse noted that the patient was not seen in the emergency room and was not 
hospitalized; however, a nurse and physician previously reported the patient was seen in the emergency room.  The
nurse reported that the patient received no treatment.  An EEG was performed on 05-Aug-2012 and results were 
reported by the nurse as borderline.  The causal relationship between the use of Ampyra and the events was 
reported by the nurse as probable.  (The following events were previously assessed by a physician as not related to
the use of Ampyra: Circulatory collapse, hyperresponsive to stimuli, movement disorder, temperature intolerance, 
dehydration, muscular weakness, thinking abnormal, fatigue, dyspnoea, communication disorder, and asthenia).
On 13-Feb-2013, Acorda completed an internal review of possible seizure cases to identify those requiring 
submission as 15 Day Alert reports with a coded event of seizure. This case was identified during this review as 
requiring re-coding; therefore this case has been updated to include seizure as a coded event.
Company Comment: The ER physician suggested a "possible" seizure. The primary care physician and neurologist 
disagreed with the diagnosis of a seizure. Symptoms are consistent with MS relapse. No description or evidence 
was provided to suggest or support a seizure event. This report is submitted as possible seizure based on 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 674 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
conflicting physician opinions.
Follow-up information was received from a health care professional (nurse) on 24-Jun-2014.
The nurse reported that the patient experienced a questionable seizure on (b) (6) . It was reported that
the patient passed out while driving and had a car accident. He was alone in the car. It was reported that the patient
had a fractured right tibial plateau and needed surgery. The patient was hospitalized following the accident, and at 
the time of the report on(b) (6)  he was still in the hospital. The seizure was not witnessed and was not 
confirmed by a health care professional. An alternate etiology was not provided. It was reported that the patient lost 
consciousness. An electroencephalogram (EEG) was not performed. The patient's blood pressure and pulse rate at
the time of the event were unknown. It was reported that the patient recovered and was not treated for the event. 
The event was preceded by the use of Baclofen. The patient did not have a known seizure disorder prior to initiating
Ampyra and did not have a known renal or hepatic insufficiency. The patient did experience recent MS progression 
or relapse. It was reported that the patient began taking Ampyra on an unspecified date in Apr-2010 (discrepant 
from previously reported start date of 12-Mar-2010) at 10 mg orally every 12 hours for help with walking. The 
Ampyra was discontinued on 23-Jun-2014, while the physician was trying to determine if the patient had an actual 
seizure. Concomitant medications at the time of the events included Tysabri, 300 mg every four weeks, Viagra 50 
mg as needed, Baclofen 40 mg three times daily, Provigil 200 mg daily, Zoloft 100 mg daily, and Ambien CR 6.25 
mg as needed. The concomitant medications were ongoing. Start dates, routes of administration, and indications 
were not provided. 
At the time of the report Ampyra was withdrawn.
The outcome of seizure was reported as recovered, the outcome of the remaining events reported on follow-up 
were unknown (current condition unknown). Additional information was not provided.