A physician/professor reported via a Biogen Idec Medical Liaison manager that a 50 year old female patient, on 
AVONEX liquid (30 mcg, IM, QW) from Aug 2013 to Apr 2014 for relapsing remitting Multiple Sclerosis (RRMS) 
was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  and subsequently diagnosed with progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML; onset Apr 2014). The patient, whose height and weight were reported to be 172 cm 
and 80 kg, respectively, was diagnosed with RRMS in 2013 with onset of symptoms/complaints in 2009 and 2010. 
Medical history included Common Variable Immunodeficiency (CVID) at least since 2009, based on retrospective 
review of a Discharge Summary and lab data from a hospitalization in 2009 ((b) (6)  to (b) (6) ). At that 
time patient had been at clinic for neurology for hypoesthesia in the right arm, dysarthria and unsteady gait of 
unknown origin. Pathological lab results included: ESR 12 mm (normal range 6-11), CRP 1.2 mg/dL (normal range 
< 0.5), leukocyte count 12,900 /?L (normal range 4,000 - 10,000), Lymphocyte portion 9% (normal range 20-50), 
neutrophils 87.4% (normal range 30-70), alpha1 globuline 5.0% (normal range 1.3-4.3), alpha2-globuline 10.3% 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 643 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(normal range 4.3 - 9.5). On (b) (6)  a CT and MRI with contrast medium were performed. The CT was 
normal; the MRI revealed a ribbon like small enhancement in anterior part of the right thalamus which was 
considered to be most likely a  DVA (developmental venous anomaly). An MRI in Aug 2013, compared to previous 
scans, indicated progression of periventricular lesions in the white matter in FLAIR. An MRI in Jan 2014 revealed 
no significant change, no contrast enhancement. An MRI in Apr 2014 indicated multifocal asymmetrical lesions 
which involved the U-fibers, hypointense in T1, hyperintense in DIR with fuzzy, cloudy borders to the white matter; 
in those lesions, there was spotty contrast enhancement in two areas. 
On (b) (6)  per the Discharge Summary, the patient was hospitalized with assumed highly active MS with a 
MS relapse lasting for several weeks characterized by worsening of cerebellar syndrome (predominantly on the 
right) with dysmetria, dysarthria, saccadic eye pursuit and spastic paraparesis (predominantly affecting leg and left 
side, Babinski sign on the left) and marked gait disturbance. In Jan 2014 and Feb 2014, the patient had 
experienced 2 or 3 acute episodes of worsening [MS relapse, onset Jan 2014] which were treated with cortisone 
pulse in Jan 2014 and Feb 2014. Subjectively, cortisone pulse led to further worsening of symptoms. Testing during
the (b) (6)  hospitalization included JCV PCR in CSF on (b) (6)  analysis was conducted at the lab of a 
university hospital (other than (b) (6) ). That specific lab is the national reference center for papilloma virus and 
polyoma virus. The first CSF specimen was received by the laboratory on (b) (6)  and the result of JCV PCR 
was positive (no quantitative result); the second CSF specimen was received by the laboratory on (b) (6)
and the result of JCV PCR was positive (no quantitative result). Additional lab tests revealed the following 
pathological results: gamma-globulin 7.2 % (normal range 10.3 - 19.6), alpha2 globulin 13.9% (normal range 7.5-
12.4), LDH 275 U/L (normal range < 250), immunoglobulin G in serum 4.84 g/L (normal range 7.0-16.0). CSF 
revealed oligoclonal bands type 2. Borreliosis, syphilis and HIV were ruled out (serologically and per CSF 
diagnostic). Treatment included a course of cortisone pulse (5 days under gastric prevention and thrombosis 
prophylaxis) and baclofen as anti-spastic medication. Final diagnosis upon discharge on (b) (6)  was 
suspicion for PML. 
The patient was re-hospitalized on (b) (6)  after CSF results became available indicating the patient was 
positive for JC virus. On (b) (6)  and repeat test on(b) (6)  JCV PCR in CSF was positive for JCV DNA
and the diagnosis of PML was confirmed. Lab tests on (b) (6)  and previous tests indicated CVID:  mild 
hypogammaglobulinemia, borderline lymphopenia, insufficient titers after diphtheria-immunization in the past. 
Therapy with mefloquine and mirtazapine was started. In addition, filgrastim was administered for 5 days (until (b)(6)  
(b) (6) ). Proprioceptive reflexes were enhanced all over. Spastic paraparesis of the legs was present. Cerebellar
syndrome with dysmetria was present all over with unsteady gait and insecure standing.  On (b) (6)  an EEG 
was performed; findings were without focal disturbances, no signs of epileptic disorder; mild form of an alpha-EEG. 
Blood test on (b) (6)  revealed the following results outside of normal range: GOT (AST) 41 U/L (normal 
range < 35), alkaline phosphatase 108 U/L (normal range 35-105), leukocytes 31.45 x1E9/L (normal range 4.4 - 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 644 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
11.3), immunoglobulin G in serum 4.65 g/L (normal range 7.0-16.0), immunoglobulin A in serum 0.65 g/L (normal 
range 0.7-4.0). AVONEX therapy was withdrawn. The patient was discharged on (b) (6)  Discharge 
medication included filgrastim, and immunoglobulins (IVIG) 20 g every 4 weeks as treatment for CVID.
The patient was electively re-hospitalized from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  for treatment with immunoglobulins 
(60 mg human IVIG administered on (b) (6) ). Additional medication consisted of Lariam (mefloquine) 250 mg
QD, and Remergil (mirtazapine) 30 mg QD. Blood tests on (b) (6)  indicated leukocytes and GOT were back 
to normal, CRP 10.4 mg/L (normal range <5.0).
A follow-up MRI in Jun 2014 indicated the border of those lesions to the white matter were now clearer and the 
lesions slightly smaller, DIR-hyperintensitiy is decreasing, no contrast enhancement (over all: no signs of IRIS).
The event of PML is continuing and was assessed as related to AVONEX. The outcome and causality for the event 
of MS relapse was unknown. Quantitative results of the JCV PCR testing are pending.
Update 27 Jun 2014: Additional information was received from the professor of neurology who provided the 
laboratory result from his (b) (6)  The report indicated the sample, received on (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  indicated the patient's viral load for JC virus in CSF in PCR was about 3000 copies/mL. Another report for a 
sample received on (b) (6)  indicated the patient's viral load for JC virus in CSF in PCR on that date was 
about 700 copies/mL. On (b) (6)  some other material (not otherwise specified) tested positive for presence 
of JCV-DNA with PCR. 
Update 30 Jun 2014: A report was received from the German regulatory agency, The Federal Institute for Drugs 
and Medical Devices, (BfArM), registry # DE-BFARM-14194028. The report had been forwarded to BfArM via the 
Drug Commission of the German Medical Association (DCGMA), report # DE-DCGMA-14163809, indicating the 
reporter to be a physician. The BfArM-Report does not provide any new information, however it lists that the sender 
(=DCGMA) does hold a medical report.
Update 04 Jul 2014: Additional information was received via a Biogen Idec employee indicating that CSF testing 
was performed in another university laboratory (not (b) (6) ). However, it was noted that the respective 
laboratory is a national reference laboratory for polyomaviruses. Additionally, the reports for the JCV samples 
received on (b) (6)  and (b) (6)  were provided (see 27 Jun 2014 update).
Update 07 Jul 2014: Additional information was received from the professor of neurology. Final causality 
assessment was that PML was caused by AVONEX therapy. CVID in patient's medical history was considered as a
predisposing factor. However, CVID itself was not seen to have causality with PML, as in the years / decades prior 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 645 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
to AVONEX therapy no serious or even note-worthy opportunistic infections had occurred. The patient will be 
closely monitored continuously with regards to clinic and MRI. New MRI is not yet available, but a MRI control is 
scheduled  within the next four weeks and results will be provided once available. The patient is seen by the 
neurologist every four weeks when she receives her immunoglobulins for CVID therapy. Regarding the clinical 
course, a partial remission is seen. 
Update 10 Jul 2014: Biogen Idec considers this case to be high suspect for PML pending repeat MRI.
Update 24 Jul 2014: Additional information was received from the professor of neurology. A MRI performed on 14 
Jul 2014 and compared to a previous MRI from 14 Jun 2014 indicated the findings were unchanged and PML-
typical lesions were still persistent. PML lesions were sharply divided from surrounding white matter. No contrast 
enhancement was seen and this was assessed as no evidence for IRIS. Atrophy was not visible upon visual 
inspection. There were no new lesions. Consistent with these MRI findings was the patient's clinical condition: there
was no change in her status. Due to stable clinical condition, a follow-up MRI control is scheduled in 8 weeks, i.e. 
mid-Sep 2014.
Update 31 Jul 2014: Upon internal review Biogen Idec considers this case confirmed for PML based on positive 
CSF, MRI findings, and clinical symptoms
Update 27 Oct 2014:  Upon follow-up via data clarification form, the professor of neurology reported that the patient 
was currently alive and lived at home.  The patient had not been diagnosed with IRIS.  The outcome of progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy was not recovered.  Causality was assessed as related to AVONEX. No further 
information was provided.
Update 26 Nov 2014: Additional information was received from the professor of neurology via a MS Standardized 
PML Data Collection Tool. The patient is alive, residing at home, and is not currently on any MS therapy. The 
neurologist assessed the patient's estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores on 15 Oct 2014 to be 90 (able to carry on
normal activity; minor signs or symptoms of disease) and 6.0. A brain MRI was performed on 13 Oct 2014 (results 
not provided). On (b) (6)  the following laboratory results were obtained: leukocyte count 6.47 per nL (normal 
range 4.4. to 11.3); lymphocyte count 18.5 % (normal range 25 to 40); and absolute lymphocyte count 1200 per nL. 
The patient had not been diagnosed with IRIS. As of 15 Oct 2014, the patient had not recovered from PML. 
Causality for the event was assessed as related to AVONEX.
Update 23 Jan 2015: Follow-up was received via a literature report, Lehmann HC, Kruger K, Fink GR, Schroeter M.
Progressive multifocal encephalopathy after interferon beta-la monotherapy.13 Jan 2015. The authors reported that
a 46 year old woman (age discrepant) presented in 2009 with gait ataxia and dysarthria. MRI results showed one 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 646 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
isolated T2 hyperintense, slightly Gadolinium (Gd) enhancing lesion in the right cerebellar hemisphere. Oligoclonal 
bands in the CSF were positive, and the patient was diagnosed as clinically isolated syndrome. Over the next two 
years, symptoms partially remitted and repeated MRI scans confirmed regression of the cerebellar lesion. In August
2013 a relapse occurred, with gait ataxia and mild spastic paresis of the right arm. MRI scans at this time showed 
new periventricular and juxtacortical lesions. Treatment with AVONEX was started at this time. In April 2014, the 
patient developed progressive left hemiparesis. MRI scan showed progressive subcortical lesions affecting U-fibers
with spotty Gd-enhancement in the right hemisphere and left frontal lobe suggestive of PML. CSF tested positive for
JC virus by polymerase chain reaction twice at that time. Further immunological workup was performed, revealing a
serum hypogammaglobulinemia (IgG) of 4.1 g/l (normal range 7-16), IgA 0.6 g/l (normal range 0.7-4.0 g/l). In 
addition mild lymphophenia (1,190/mm3) with reduced CD4 T cell count (140/mm3) was detected, compatible with 
the diagnosis of a common variable immunodeficiency syndrome (CVID). HIV infection and other causes of 
secondary immunodeficiency were ruled out by appropriate laboratory tests. Once PML diagnosis was established, 
treatment with AVONEX was stopped immediately. The patient was treated with mirtazapine, mefloquine, filgrastim,
and IV immunoglobulins because of the hypogammaglobulin-emia. The following weeks these treatments lead to 
rapid clinical stabilization and partial recovery of the hemiparesis. Follow-up MRI scans 5 and 9 weeks after 
treatment showed a considerable reduction of the right-hemispheric lesions without evidence for an immune 
reconstitution syndrome. This is to our knowledge the first report of an MS patient who developed PML during 
monotherapy with AVONEX. All required criteria for the diagnosis of MS were fulfilled, including typical clinical 
presentation of several attacks affecting different functional systems, disseminated MS-typical MRI lesions and 
presence of oligoclonal bands in the CSF. Laboratory tests for tick borne diseases, herpes viruses, rheumatic 
disease, and thyroid disorders were unremarkable and excluded MS mimics. The clear temporal association 
suggests that AVONEX treatment may have provoked PML in our case. However, similar to natalizumab-
associated PML cases in which risk factors are debated, we believe that the previously unrecognized and clinically 
unapparent immunodeficiency syndrome may have been a critical predisposing factor for PML.
Amendment (23FEB2015):C Clarification on the literature report from 23 JAN 2015 (Lehmann HC, Kruger K, Fink 
GR, Schroeter M. Progressive multifocal encephalopathy after interferon beta-la monotherapy, 13 Jan 2015): 
According to the authors, the clear temporal association suggests that AVONEX treatment may have provoked 
PML in this case. However, similar to natalizumab-associated PML cases in which risk factors are debated, authors
believe that the previously unrecognized and clinically unapparent immunodeficiency syndrome may have been a 
critical predisposing factor for PML.
Update 17 Apr 2015: In response to the reminder for the 12 month DCT, the neurologist reported that the patient 
has constantly been in his care and surveillance, and that there had not been any new aspects during the previous 
visits, neither clinically nor in the MRI.  He announced to complete the DCT form when the patient came to the next 
follow-up visit.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 647 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 04 May 2015: A report was received via the literature Kruger K, Kruger P, Lehmann H. Three Different 
Faces of an Uninvited Guest? Therapy-Associated Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) during 
Multiple Sclerosis (MS)-Treatment, and This Time not the Usual Suspects?, Insight Medmeme, 2015 Annual Fall 
meeting of the International Hydrocephalus Imaging Working Group (IHIWG) held jointly with the 53rd Annual 
Meeting of the American Society Of Neuroradiology (ASNR) and 2015 Symposium of the Foundation of the 
American Society Of Neuroradiology (ASNR).
The author reported in This Time not the Usual Suspects: A completely healthy 46-year-old female patient 
developed a cerebellar syndrome in 2009, and was diagnosed as clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) suggestive of 
MS [positive oligoclonal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) bands]. After "wait and watch" a relapse occurred in 2013, and 
DMT with IFb1a was introduced. Nine months later a subacute severe neurologic deterioration occurred with left 
hemiparesis and progressing ataxia. MR imaging findings were atypical for MS progression and suggestive of PML 
(which was confirmed by CSF examinations). An in-depth immunological work up revealed a previously 
unrecognized and clinically inapparent common variable immunodeficiency (CVID). IFb1a was stopped 
immediately, and monthly intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) was administered. The patient improved markedly 
during the following 3 months, as did the MRI findings. In contrast to many NTZ-associated PML cases no clinical 
or MRI signs of an immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) occurred. The patient is doing fairly well 
after 8 months. Image Findings: MR data include a longitudinal registration of the magnetization transfer ratio 
(MTR) during the entire observation period of more than 4 years.At CIS diagnosis one single bright T2 lesion in the 
right cerebellar hemisphere without diffusion restriction and Gd enhancement was seen. During "wait and watch" 
we observed a continuous
and significant (p<0.0001) decrease of mean MTR values until the relapse, when multiple periventricular, callosal 
and some subcortical bright T2-lesions were found, partially with Gd enhancement. During 9 months of DMT mean 
MTR values were increasing, but when symptoms were progressing unexpectedly and severely, we found several 
new subcortical confluent bright T2 lesions mainly in the right hemisphere involving U fibers with diffusion restriction
in the border areas and without significant Gd enhancement. Findings were suggestive of PML, and during 
pragmatic therapy (including discontinuation of IFb1a plus monthly IVIg) a marked improvement of imaging findings
could be observed within 3 months. There were no signs of an IRIS. Summary: To recognize PML, T2-weighted 
FLAIR and DIR sequences with CSF and white matter (WM) suppression seemed the "gold-standard". Subcortical 
U fibers are primarily involved, and oligodendrocyte swelling can cause diffusion restriction at the edges of the 
lesions. Spreading occurs from different foci like an invasion front at different speed and momentum, while 
upcoming spotty Gd enhancement marks transition to IRIS. If MS patients severely progress during DMT, PML 
must be considered regardless of the applied drug. Interferons may provoke PML in susceptible MS patients who 
are not fully immunocompetent. Thus, clinical and neuroradiologic vigilance is the key to a timely recognition of 
therapy-associated PML.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 648 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The author reported in Three Different Faces of an Uninvited Guest:  A patient receiving monotherapy with 
interferon beta-1a presented with severe neurological deterioration MR findings were atypical for MS deterioration. 
After PML diagnosis a concomitant and previously unrecognized common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) was 
found. Monthly intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) was administered. No clinical or MRI signs of IRIS occurred in 
this case, and we observed a marked improvement of MRI findings within the first 3 months.
Update 26 May 2015: Additional information was received from the hospital neurologist and professor of neurology 
via a MS Standardized PML Data Collection Tool. The patient is alive, residing at home, and is not currently on any 
MS therapy. The neurologist assessed the patient's estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores on 19 May 2015 to be 
90 (able to carry on normal activity; minor signs or symptoms of disease) and 2.5. The patient's brain MRI is 
scheduled for Jul 2015. The patient has not been diagnosed with IRIS. As of 19 May 2015 the patient has not 
recovered from PML. Causality for the event was assessed as related to suspect product, AVONEX.