Information received on 03-Jul-2014:
Serious case: medically significant
A health authority reported on a patient of unknown age and gender on Busulfex (Busulfex), 12.0 mg/kg, route 
unknown, frequency unknown, on an unknown date for an unknown indication.  The following co-suspect drugs 
were reported:  fludara, prednisone, rituxan, and zevelin. On an unknown date, the patient experienced progressive
multifocal leukoencephalopathy.  It was unknown if the patient continued use of Busulfex and the outcome of the 
event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was unknown. The lot number and expiration date were not 
reported.
Concomitant medications included:  carboplatin, cisplatin, cyclophosamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, etoposide, 
ifosfamide,  and vincristine sulfate.  The patient s relevant medical history, and past drug history were unknown.
This case has only limited information for a complete medical assessment; follow up is needed for further 
information.
Reporter causality assessment: Not provided for the event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
Data correction:
This case was received as published source, journal unknown. 
The report type was changed to Unsolicited (spontaneous) Lit, previously reported as Unsolicited (spontaneous).
Follow-up information was received on 03-NOV-2014 from Health Canada. Additional information included the 
reporter details, study details and the literature reference.
This is a non-interventional study literature case received from a physician via Health Canada and concerns a 
patient of unspecified age and gender, who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, while being 
enrolled in aretrospective study aimed to evaluate the long-term event-free (EPS) and overall (OS) survival rates 
following ASCT for Follicular Lymphoma (FL), and to identify predictors of improved outcome and to evaluate the 
potential impact of rituximab use and clinical prognostic factors on these outcomes.
Retrospective analysis of the first 100 consecutive patients with relapsed or refractory Follicular Lymphoma treated 
with high dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplant (HDT/ASCT) from 1993 to 2008 was performed. 
The ASCT database was interrogated to identify the initial consecutive 100 patients receiving HDT/ASCT for 
relapsed or refractory FL. 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 686 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The first consecutive 100 patients (59 males, age ranging: 30-71 years) were treated with HDT/ ASCT for 
relapsed/refractory FL between SEP-1993 to OCT-2008. Thirty patients failed rituximab-based chemotherapy prior 
to ASCT, Including 22 relapsed and eight refractory patients. No patient received maintenance rituximab post 
ASCT.
Patient s additional concomitant medications included Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor in addition to the 
previously reported medications.
It was reported that on an unspecified date, the patient began to receive busulfan 12 mg/kg, prednisone, Zevalin 
(ibritumomab tiuxetan), carboplatin, cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, itoposide and 
Ifosfamide (dose and frequency unspecified), intravenous rituximab solution, intravenous Fludara (fludarabine 
phosphate) at 250 mg/me2 and subsequently developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
The outcome of the event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was unknown.
The reporter did not provide causality assessment for the event and the health authority assessed the event as 
medically significant.
Literature reference: Peter A, Duan G, Russell J, Duggan P, Owen C and Stewart D. Durable event-free survival 
following autologous stem cell transplant for relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma, positive impact of recent 
rituximab exposure and low risk Follicular Lymphoma International Prognostic Index Score. Leukemia & Lymphoma
Follow up 03Nov2014: Additional information was received to to Roach on 07Apr2014 and the following information 
was added tihe case. The patient was enrolled in a non-interventional study. The literature reference. Reporter 
details. Study Details.
The company assessment remains related by implied causality for the event Progressive Multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (serious-medically significant). 
Follow-up requested.