Medically Significant
A male patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple Sclerosis from 19 Apr 2007 to 09 May 2014 reported 
possible PML (onset 2014) and possible stroke (onset 2014).  The outcome for the events possible PML and 
possible stroke is unknown.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued. The patient reported that in February 2014 he 
had an MRI done and the results showed a lesion on his left occipital lobe. The patient was then diagnosed with 
having had a stroke. The patient had a follow up MRI on 14 May 2014  and he was advised that he may have PML. 
A spinal tap was done on 15 May 2014 to test for JCV and the test results came back negative. The patient 
reported that he previously tested positive for JCV.  Patient advised that he has discontinued TYSABRI and is 
waiting for another MRI which will be on 29 June 2014 . The patient was previously enrolled in(b) (6)
) and withdrew on 08 Sep 2011. The patient was previously on Copaxone 
(glatiramer acetate). At the time of thsi report the TOUCH database indicated the patient received 92 infusions of 
TYSABRI from 19 Apr 2007 to 09 May 2014.
Update 02 Jul 2014: The nurse was contacted and confirmed the patient was being worked up for PML. The patient
had a routine MRI in Mar or Apr 2014 . Their radiologist read this as a stroke; patient was asymptomatic at the time.
He was referred to Stroke Team for further testing and management. The patient started to have some visual 
symptoms and was upset with the diagnosis of stroke and he sought a second opinion/ consult. The new physician 
reviewed the same MRI as possible PML. The patient underwent a lumbar puncture and second MRI. With the 
second MRI they thought the  lesion was larger and more likely to be PML  than stroke.The first LP  was negative 
for JCV PCR (not sure which lab). The second LP done on 04 Jun 2014 was  again negative for JCV. The plan was
to repeat the MRI and depending on these results a possible plan for brain biopsy. Of note, the nurse reported the 
JCV AB index was  3.3.
Update 02 Jul 2014: The neurologist reported the  patient was asymptomatic and  patient was JCV antibody 
positive with an index > 1.5.The brain MRI earlier this year noted an unusual lesion (initially read as a stroke). The 
lesion enlarged on follow up MRI.  The initial CSF PCR and repeat ultrasensitive CSF PCR have been negative, but
the patient is being worked up by a different physician, not at their  center.
Update 21 Jul 2014: Follow-up from the patient reported his last TYSABRI infusion was on 09 May 2014. He 
reported his neurologist found a lesion on his left occipital lobe during an MRI in Apr 2014. An MRI performed on 14
May 2014 showed the lesion had grown. The patient had another MRI on 29 Jun 2014 and the same lesion 
continues to grow. In addition to the 29 Jun 2014 MRI, the patient has also recently had 2 spinal taps to check his 
CSF fluid for PML and a CT Scan to test for PML. Patient said all testing has come back negative but his 
neurologist believes he may have PML and would like to preform a brain biopsy. The patient also reported feeling 
sick as the TYSABRI  would wear off after 3 weeks and right after she would get a TYSABRI  infusion. No other 
information was provided by patient.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 2 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 21 Jul 2014: Follow-up from the neurologist  reported the patient's JCV PCR testing has been negative 
(both at their  hospital and at (b) (6) ).  She reported , the workup is clinically and radiographically most consistent 
with PML.  They have discussed the pros and cons of conducting a biopsy, and right now are watching the patient's 
MRI scan every month or so to see what transpires since the patient  is clinically fairly stable, with some subtle 
visual field disturbances (the lesion is in the left occipital region).  TYSABRI has been discontinued. 
Update 25 Jul 2014: Follow-up from the neurologist  confirmed PML is the working diagnosis at this time. They 
have not used  PLEX or steroids yet; there may be a little IRIS (subtle enhancement), since the patient is clinically 
stable and didn't want to precipitate a rebound of MS for any reason when he was clinically well. 
Update 08 Aug 2014: In response to a request for additional information, medical records including office visit notes
and imaging reports were provided from the second opinion neurologist at (b) (6)  Hospital. At the 
time of the MRI in Feb 2013, the patient was initially asymptomatic but had developed right eye vision changes. Of 
note, the patient had had a motor vehicle accident (onset Nov 2013) and had complained of mild vision loss since 
his accident. The patient also had a history of vision issues. The patient was told that the Feb 2014 MRI revealed a 
left occipital stroke; however, the patient was upset with the stroke diagnosis so he pursued a second opinion in 
May 2014. The second-opinion consultation at (b) (6)  included the following information: a repeat brain MRI 
was performed at (b) (6)  on 14 May 2014 which revealed several supratentorial predominantly 
periventricular T2/FLAIR hyperintense foci compatible with MS, and a T2/FLAIR hyperintense lesion in left occipital 
lobe involving predominantly the subcortical white matter with subtle enhancement, and review of the 17 Feb 2014 
MRI revealed confluent periventricular and scattered subcortical T2/FLAIR signal hyperintensities in supratentorial 
brain compatible with MS, and a subcortical white matter T2/FLAIR signal hyperintensity in the left occipital lobe 
which was less prominent than on the follow-up exam from 14 May 2014. A MRI was performed on 29 Jun 2014 
which revealed redemonstration of unchanged periventricular & juxtacortical T2/FLAIR hyperintensities compatible 
with MS, and expanding confluent area of T2/FLAIR in left occipital lobe with peripheral decreased ADC values and
patchy enhancement. On 17 Jul 2014 MRI and PET CT of skull were performed with findings of progression of the 
suspicious left occipital lesion which is non-enhancing and spares the cortex. The PET/CT scan on 17 Jul 2014 
revealed mild, asymmetrically decreased metabolism of left occipital cortex compared to right, which matches a 
region of white matter hyperintensities on MRI, and the MRI on 17 Jul 2014 this is not suggestive of intracranial 
lymphoma but would favor PML. CSF JCV PCR performed on 15 May 2014 was negative (performed at (b) (6)  
 lab, lower level of detection <100 copies). A second CSF JCV PCR performed on 04 Jun 2014 was also 
negative (testing at both (b) (6)  & (b) (6)  lab).  On 07 Aug 2014 the patient was seen as an outpatient due to 
complaints of "feeling less well", worsening vision (but patient was still driving), headaches, as well as trouble with 
complex thoughts and some language alexia. The neurologist noted that, "likely PML in context of TYSABRI 
exposure and elevated JCV antibody titer despite negative JCV PCR CSF results x 2, as imaging is consistent with 
PML". It was also noted that the alexia could be consistent with worsening PML itself or an associated IRIS (onset 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 3 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
unknown), and MS therapy remained on hold. A stat MRI was performed on 07 Aug 2014 with findings of:  stable 
white matter lesion within the left occipital lobe showing slight contrast enhancement; in this clinical context, PML 
and IRIS remain the major diagnostic considerations. The patient was not admitted at (b) (6)
Hospital, but was prescribed 5 days of IV Solu-medrol as an outpatient. The patient was also referred to neuro-
opthalmolgy for additional testing and rehab for low vision, as well as continued psychotherapy was recommended. 
Patient medical history included migraines, hypercholesterolemia, anxiety, and a facial injury due to a bottle slash a 
number of years ago. The patient is a non-smoker. Concomitant medication included aspirin, Vitamin D3, Krill oil, 
MVI, simvastatin, testosterone, valacyclovir and amitriptyline
Update 20 Aug 2014:  The patient re-reported, via a program of Monitored Therapy, the events of PML and IRIS.
Additionally, the patient reported that he feels beat up and not able to sleep, which he attributes to steroid treatment
(onset Aug 2014), and stressed out (onset 2014).  Treatment included a 5 day course of SoluMEDROL 
(methylprednisolone) followed by a prednisone taper.  The events of feels beat up, not able to sleep, and stressed 
out are ongoing.  The consumer did not provide a causality assessment for any of the events. The status of 
TYSABRl therapy was unknown (discrepant).
Update 26 Aug 2014: In response to request for additional case information, the neurologist, via a medical science 
liaison, reported the patient will not undergo a [brain] biopsy, and believes the patient has PML.
Update 29 Aug 2014: In response to request for additional case information, the same neurolgist stated that she 
has referred the patient to (b) (6)  to participate in a study (NOS) and that he will be "re-tapped" (spinal tap) as part of 
that study. The neurolgist also reported that per the patient, he had previously participated in the AFFIRM study 
(protocol number (b) (6)
(b) (6)
Update 02 Sep 2014: Additional follow-up information from the neurologist reported the patient will enter a (b) (6)  
protocol (NOS) and addtional CSF will be obtained there, so it will be unlikely that another [CSF] sample will be 
gathered at the neurologist's practice.
Update 08 Sep 2014:Clarification was provided that the patient was enetered into protocol (b) (6)
and received 6 doses of medication.
Update 18 Sep 2014: Additional information was received from a neurologist via a Biogen Idec employee.  The 
neurologist re-reported via a program of Monitored Therapy that the patient experienced PML (onset Sep 2014; 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 4 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
date discrepant).  The event is ongoing and the causality of the event in relations to TYSABRI was assessed as 
related.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued.
Update 21 Oct 2014: The patient re-reported via a program of Monitored Therapy that he was diagnosed with PML 
(onset 15 May 2014; date discrepant, previously reported as Sep 2014). The patient stated he was disabled at the 
time of this report. The event of PML is ongoing. The causality for the event was not assessed. TYSABRI therapy 
remains discontinued.
Update 09 Nov 2014: In response to a request for follow-up information, the neurologist reported that the patient 
was clinicallyl stable at the time of the reporting. The neurologist stated that the patient had been getting serial 
imaging at the (b) (6)  (dates not provided) and that she had been told that the lesion seemed stable to slightly better. 
The patient had a  repeat lumbar puncture at (b) (6) (unknown date) and JCV [DNA] was still negative, as was BK 
testing, however, they ((b) (6) ) were also convinced this is PML. The neurologist has not decided on [MS] therapy for 
the future.
Update 20 Nov 2014: Upon internal review, Biogen Idec considers this case to be high suspect for PML despite 
lack of positive CSF, based on MRI results consistent with PML. This case will be closed and no additional follow-
up is expected.