08-Jul-2014, Spontaneous, Patient/Consumer Serious report (Local #1-583491428).
A Consumer/other non health professional reported the case of a Unknown-old Female patient who received 
COPAXONE (GLATIRAMER ACETATE, Product is or cannot be excluded as a Teva product).  The patient took 
COPAXONE (GLATIRAMER ACETATE, Dosage information not provided). While on the suspect medication(s), 
the patient experienced TESTED POSITIVE FOR JC VIRUS(Serious );WORSENING LESIONS(Not Serious ). Pt 
states she developed enhanced, worsening lesions while on Copaxone, and tested positive for JC virus so her HCP
stopped the medicationimmediately.
Lab tests:
JC virus test: positive Not Applicable
At the time of the report the outcome of the AEs were:   TESTED POSITIVE FOR JC VIRUS : Unknown, 
WORSENING LESIONS : Unknown
Action taken with suspect drugs: COPAXONE - Drug discontinued.
 The patient's medical history was not reported.
The patient's concomitant medication were unspecified.
The patient's past medication were unspecified.
Teva Comment:  GLATIRAMER ACETATE.  Insufficient information on medical history, concomitant medications... 
Additional information requested.  Causality: unassessable.  Additional information may result in re-assessment.
Because this is a spontaneous case, regulatory distribution will be handled as though it is a related case.
04-Sep-2014:
Additional information received from patient who reported she took Copaxone from the summer of 1998 to the 
summer of 2002. She was taken off Copaxone due to the worsening of lesions. SHe was not on copaxone when 
she was diagnosised with positive JC Virus test in 2012. She was taking avonex at the time. She provided me with 
the physician's information and permission to call.
Additional information received from the physician office who reported the patient was tested for the JC virus in 
Nov-2011 and was found to be positive. She was on Avonex at the time. There was no mention that copaxone was 
responsible. After discontinuing Copaxone in 2002, the patient also took TYSABRI and Aubagio. Patient 
discontinued Avonex May 2012. The patient was seen in Jun-2014, and had no complaints.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 35 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Teva comment: Teva comment: No evidence of a causal role for glatiramer acetate on the reported 'JC virus 
infection'. Patient was no longer on Copaxone but was on Avonex. Causality: Not related to glatiramer acetate.
Central nervous system lesion most probably represents a progression of the underlying MS. Causality: Not related 
to glatiramer acetate.
Safety Physician assessment: JC virus is common in the population, with approximately 60% to 80% of people 
having antibodies to it, indicating previous exposure. It does not usually cause disease in healthy individuals. 
However patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy (like Tysabri) have a higher risk to develop progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) - a rare and often fatal disease. Considering the high frequency of positive 
JC virus antibodies in the general population, the finding of JC virus antibodies in this lady is not considered an 
unusual event or does not pose a special risk. The only consideration is related to her treatment with Tysabri, 
however the patient is no longer taking it.
Copaxone is not known to be associated with JC virus or with PML. Moreover, considering the 10 year gap between
the end of Copaxone therapy and the detection of the JC virus, there is no evidence for causal relation to 
Copaxone.