The treating neurologist spontaneously reported that a 54 year old female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for
Multiple Sclerosis from 25 Jul 2008 to 05 Jun 2014 was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to an unknown date for PML
(onset 30 Jun 2014). Previous medication included Avonex (Interferon beta-1a). MS was diagnosed in Mar 2007. At
the time of this report, TOUCH dosing database indicated the patient had received a total of 74 doses of TYSABRI 
infusion from 25 Jul 2008 to 05 Jun 2014. The patient presented primarily with ataxia along with some vertigo and 
also reported worsening cognitive impairment over the last 6 weeks. MRI showed fluffy, hyperintense lesions in the 
right cerebellar peduncle that extends into the cerebellum. There was no Gd enhancement and the lesion is 
hypointense on T1. Lesion had indiscrete boarders. The patient was tested positive for anti JCV antibodies on 16 
Feb 2011. Lumbar puncture was scheduled the following day at the time of this report and then the patient would 
begin PLEX. The event of PML is ongoing. The causality for the event of PML was assessed as related.  TYSABRI 
therapy was discontinued.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 28 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Preferred Term ( MedDRA  Version: 17.1 ReC
Update 03 Jul 2014: Additional information was received from the primary/ prescribing neurologist via office visit 
notes. The patient was seen at a neurologist's office on 24 Jun 2014 and 30 Jun 2014 for gait ataxia, extremity 
weakness, fatigue, vision changes, and cognitive trouble following completion of Solu Medrol (methylprednisolone) 
infusions a few weeks ago for her [MS] exacerbation. The patient noted that she was better after the infusions. The 
patient's medical history included MS and hypertension. Her concomitant medications included aspirin, carvedilol, 
cyanocobalamin, donepezil, estradiol, gabapentin, hydrocodone-acetaminophen, ibuprofen, pitavastatin and 
tizanidine. Brain MRI on 30 Jun 2014, compared to 30 Sep 2013, showed progression of a demyelinating process 
with confluent and patchy signal abnormality involving the pons, right middle cerebellar peduncle and right 
cerebellar hemisphere, developed since interval study. There was no associated enhancement or diffusion 
restriction to suggest active process. Cervical spinal MRI on 30 Jun 2014, compared to 30 Sep 2013, showed that 
early degenerative disc bulging at C5-C6 and C6-C7. There were no findings to suggest demyelinating process 
within the cervical cord. A chest xray on 30 Jun 2014 was normal.A LP on 01 Jul 2014 revealed CSF was clear and 
opening pressure was zero.
Update 07 Jul 2014: Additional information was received from a neurologist via a Biogen Idec employee (Medical 
Science Liaison). The patient was extremely stable and still only had a little ataxia on the right side. She had 
completed her 4th PLEX and was due for a follow up MRI the next day at the time of this report. The patient's CSF 
PCR for JCV DNA tested at (b) (6)  was more than 3200 copies/ml. The neurologist estimated the lesion is 
2cm/4cm in the posterior fossa.
Update 16 Jul 2014:The nurse of the patient enrolled in a BiogenIdec sponsored  study of Monitored therapy 
reported the patient experienced a plaque in brain as shown on MRI and  PML with symptoms of not thinking 
properly and off balance (previously reported). TYSABRI was previously discontinued. The patient is now home and
feeling better than before. 
 Update 17 Jul 2014:Per Biogen Idec internal review this case is considered confirmed PML.
Update 18 Aug 2014: The neurologist reported via an Area Business Manager, that a female patient, was 
diagnosed in the past month with PML.  The patient's diagnosis of PML was confirmed by second opinion. The 
event is possibly related to TYSABRI.
Update 22 Aug 2014:Follow-up from the neurologist's nurse reported  the patient was admitted last week (date unk)
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 29 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
 for PML and should be discharged on (b) (6)  An MRI was performed on (b) (6)  (results pending). 
Medical records were provided that reported she was admitted to the hospital on (b) (6)  with PML and a 
neurology consult was requested. The patient had reported she is feeling worse and having increase visual blurring,
 worsening gait and slurred speech. She denied fevers or other infectious like symptoms. The patient has a history 
of chest pain, anxiety, heartburn, herniated disc, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, migraine and sinusitis.The 
patient has a surgical history of cardiac stent.  The patient has a family history of cardiac issues. The patient  does 
not use alcohol or drugs; smoking history is unknown. The  assessment was that the patient was experiencing  MS 
(possible), ataxia deteriorated, paresthesia (unchanged) and abnormality of gait (deteriorated) and PML 
(deteriorated). The patient  was prescribed IV Solu-medrol (methylprednisolone sodium succinate) for 5 days for 
possible immune reconstitution syndrome (IRIS) (onset unk). The patient had been previously  treated with PLEX 
and steroids.  Medical records included results of an  LP done  on (b) (6)  which reported the CSF was clear 
and opening pressure was zero. An MRI done on (b) (6)   revealed focal signal prolongation in the 
periventricular white matter, the right brachial pontis and left pons consistent with MS versus other demyelinating 
disorders.A chest xray performed on 30 Jun 2014 was normal. Causality was not provided for the event of possible 
IRIS.
Update 22 Aug 2014:Follow-up from the neurologist provided a copy of the MRI result performed (b) (6)  The
MRI impression was stable MRI consistent with PML (mild white matter disease, no mass effect, no enhancement, 
brainstem shows hyperintensity in pons, right cerebellar peduncle consistent with prior MRI).
Update 04 Sep 2014:A neurologist reported via a MSL that the patient is currently not doing well despite a follow-up
visit 3 weeks ago during which she looked stable and well. The most recent MRI reveals significant pons and 
cerebellum involvement after the patient presented without obvious symptomatic changes. The neurologist does 
not believe this patient will survive in this setting. 
Update 08 Sep 2014: Follow-up from the neurologist reported the patient is doing very poorly. She was admitted to 
the hospital with increased diplopia, dysphagia, impaired speech, inablility to walk. The neurologist  is setting up 
hospice. He received a copy of the MRI and the abonormality has expanded signifcantly over the last 2 weeks to 
involve the entire pons and half of the cerebellum.
Update 08 Sep 2014: Additional follow-up from the neurologist reported the patient has undergone a steroid 
treatment with essentially no change. Her MRI was done after the steroids  were over there, and didn't have any 
enhancement. The patient hasn't had a repeat tap due to posterior fossa swelling. The neurologist has contacted 
Chimerix about the possibility of CMX001 but no response yet. 
Update 25 Sep 2014: A neurologist reported via medical science liaison details of the recent patient death related to
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 30 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
PML.  The neurologist described the diagnosis, her last weeks, and ultimately her death.  The patient was 
discharged from the hospital to home with hospice care as her condition deteriorated very rapidly. She developed 
difficulty speaking, limited to grunt-like sounds, and very labored breathing.  She was only able to breathe by using 
her diaphragm to expand lung volume.  She died post-discharge on Day 2 quietly at home with hospice. The 
neurologist reported the patient's life fell apart as her MS worsened.  TYSABRI dramatically changed and improved 
her life and she had a "great 5 last years ".  The neurologist advised that the patient was fully aware of the risks 
inherent with TYSABRI therapy. Copies of the patient's MRIs pre-and post-PML diagnosis will be provided. No 
additional information was reported. 
Update 07 Oct 2014: A neurologist reported via medical science liaison that no autopsy was performed, so a report 
is not available. There is no death report or dictation as the patient was cared for by hospice and died at home.
The neurologist is sending the MRI imaging for both pre-diagnosis and post-diagnosis.  No additional information 
was reported.