A 60-year-old male subject (b) (6) ) developed a malignant astrocytoma (WHO grade III), requiring hospitalization 
during enrollment in (b) (6)
. The subject previously participated in studies (b) (6)  and (b) (6)   On 
03 June 2003, the subject received his fifth infusion of natalizumab in study CD351. The subject has a history of 
iron deficiency anemia. The subject has no prior history of central nervous system disease.  In June 2003 (date 
unspecified), the subject experienced "general confusion".  On (b) (6)  the subject presented to the 
emergency room with symptomatology that included disorientation to time and place and a loss of interest in daily 
activities and was admitted to the hospital for further investigations. Neurological exam revealed intact cranial 
nerves, normal coordination, and slightly diminished deep feeling in lower legs. According to the investigator, the 
subject "did not have signs of dementia, delirium or seizures". Also, the investigator reported that the subject 
appeared "normal" both one month and one week prior to being admitted to the hospital. No electroencephalogram 
was done on admission. Decreased B12 levels (see lab section) were not considered to be contributing to the 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 13 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
subject's confusion as the subject has a two-year history that required B12 injections.  The subject's sodium, urea, 
and creatinine were all within normal ranges.  Results of a spiral computed tomography (CT) scan with contrast, 
performed on (b) (6)  revealed right frontal vasogenic edema with inflammatory changes in the left maxillary 
sinus and was suggestive of a low grade malignant tumor, type astrocytoma.  On (b) (6)  the subject 
underwent a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that revealed a "multifocal tumoral process: like a  glioma". 
Sedimentation rate, toxicology, alcohol, and urinalysis were not measured.  According to the investigator, the 
subject has no known radiation exposure or exposure to chemicals associated with plastics.  On (b) (6)  the 
subject underwent surgery to remove the tumor.  Histopathology results are pending.  According to the investigator,
the subject was extubated and in the intensive care unit for monitoring, but no surgical complications. As of (b) (6)  
(b) (6) the event remains ongoing.  The event was reported by the investigator as related to study drug. The 
subject's treatment was unblinded for both(b) (6)  and (b) (6)  The subject was found to be randomized to 
natalizumab in (b) (6)  in which he received a total of three monthly infusions and to placebo in (b) (6)  in which he 
received a total of nine monthly infusions.
Additional information received on 01 August 2003 revealed pathology results of the brain tumor to be Malignant 
Astrocytoma (WHO grade III) with massive secondary reactive changes (see lab section B.6 on page 2).  On (b)(6)  
(b) (6) , the subject had a fluid collection requiring a re-trephination and fluid aspiration with reclosure of the dura 
defect. As of (b) (6) , the event remains ongoing. 
Additional information received on 15 August 2003 revealed that the subject "remains continuously and increasingly
confused".  Also, the subject underwent a CT scan (date unspecified in relation to the surgery) that showed no 
evidence of tumor growth other than the known lesions.
Additional information received on 26 August 2003 revealed, according to the surgical report, that the entire tumor 
could not be excised.  The aforementioned CT scan was preformed on 11 August 2003 and showed no indication 
of residual tumor or tumor regrowth.  According to the investigator the subject is "still confused and apathetic" 
however was discharged from the hospital on (b) (6)   Also, once the subject's "mental condition" 
improves he will be considered for  radiotherapy.  As of 26 August 2003, the event remains ongoing.
Additional information received on 19 September 2003, revealed that the subject was readmitted to the hospital on 
(b) (6)  after experiencing an epileptic seizure. The seizure was described as tonic phase with 
hysterical laughter.  The subject was treated with phenytoin, which was tapered and changed to lamotrigine 50 mg 
with increasing dose to 200 mg.  The investigator stated that a MRI done on (b) (6)  "revealed 
progression of the tumor and edema".  In addition to the progression of the right frontal, left frontal, and right 
temporal lesions, the MRI report also revealed new tumors on the right internal capsule and on the left temporal 
lobe.  According to the investigator, "the subject is not doing well". The subject was treated with methylprednisolone
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 14 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
60 mg for the edema.  As of (b) (6)  the subject had not experienced any further epileptic seizures. 
Radiotherapy was postponed due to the "bad status" of the subject.  On (b) (6)  the subject was 
discharged from the hospital.  As of (b) (6)  the event of malignant astrocytoma remains ongoing.
Additional information received on 10 December 2003 revealed that the subject was admitted to the palliative ward 
of the hospital (date unspecified), was treated with sedatives, and died on (b) (6)   The investigator 
reported that he could not exclude the relationship of the event to natalizumab. 
Additional information was received on 24 March 2005. The ongoing safety evaluation of TYSABRI has led to this 
previously diagnosed case of malignant astrocytoma being reassessed as progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML).  The case was reviewed and the communication from the neuropathologist noted 
pathognomonic features of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, including the enlarged, basophilic 
oligodendrocyte nuclei. The process involves the white matter in a patchy manner and largely spares the overlying 
cortex. In addition, there are numerous scattered, large, pleomorphic astrocytes. Both cell types stain strongly for 
papovavirus and for p53. There are also collections of macrophages and lymphocytes. The large pleomorphic 
astrocytes raise the differential diagnosis of co-existing astrocytoma, but the pathologist did not favor this additional 
diagnosis.
Update 27 Jun 2014: A report was received via the literature Langer-Gould A, Atlas S.W, Green A.J, Bolle A.W and
Pelletier D. Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy in a Patient Treated with Natalizumab. N Engl J Med 
2005; 353:375-381. 28 Jul 2005. DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa051847. The author reported that the patient with Crohn?s 
disease had received natalizumab alone and developed PML. No additional information was provided.
Update 27 Jun 2014: This case was reported via the literature Van Assche G, Van Ranst M, Sciot R, Dubois B, 
Vermeire S, Noman M, et al. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy after  natalizumab therapy for Crohn's 
disease. N Engl J Med 2005;353:362-8. The authors reported that a 60-year-old patient with long-standing ileal 
Crohn?s disease presented to the emergency unit with severe confusion and disorientation on (b) (6)  (date 
discrepant to previous report of (b) (6) ) with natalizumab had been initiated in March 2002 (date discrepant to 
previous report of 12 Feb 2003). The patient initially received three monthly infusions of 300 mg intravenously 
during the Evaluation of Natalizumab as Continuous Therapy 1 ((b) (6) ) trial, followed by treatment with placebo 
for nine months in the (b) (6)  trial. Open-label natalizumab at a dose of 300 mg given intravenously every four 
weeks was then resumed in February 2003 for a relapse of Crohn?s disease. The patient received five doses of the
drug before he was admitted. He had been treated with multiple therapies during that time, including azathioprine 
(75 to 150 mg given daily), but this treatment had been discontinued eight months before admission because of 
refractory anemia with low platelet counts and lymphopenia. Medical history since 1996 included intermittent signs 
of deficient hematopoiesis, with lymphopenia and anemia predominating, regardless of ongoing therapy. A bone 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 15 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
marrow smear had shown pancytopenia despite active hematopoiesis, which was interpreted as reflecting chronic 
inflammatory disease.Since the diagnosis of Crohn?s disease 28 years earlier, the patient had been treated with 
azathioprine, antibiotics, budesonide, and infliximab (with the last infusion given 20 months before admission). 
Segmental ileal resection had been performed eight and three years earlier. On admission, the patient was found to
be mentally slow, albeit with normal arousal (Mini-Mental State examination score of 29; the highest score is 30). 
No focal signs were found on neurologic examination. General physical features were also unremarkable with no 
fever or abdominal tenderness and with normal vital signs.  Routine hematologic and biochemical measurements 
showed mild iron deficiency anemia (hemoglobin, 10.7 g per deciliter) with a normal white-cell count and a platelet 
count of 121,000 per cubic millimeter, a blood glucose level of 150 mg per deciliter (8.3 mmol per liter), a low serum
potassium level (3.11 mmol per liter), and a low phosphate level (0.64 mg per deciliter [0.21 mmol per liter]), with 
otherwise normal serum levels of electrolytes. Levels of C-reactive protein were normal, as were the findings on 
electrocardiography and chest radiography. A computed tomographic scan (PET scan) of the brain showed a 
nonenhancing hypodense lesion in the right frontal lobe. Both T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
scans and MRI scans obtained with fluid-attenuated inversion recovery revealed hyperintense nonenhancing 
lesions in the right frontal lobe and in the left frontal and right temporal lobes. Because of progressive deterioration 
in the patient?s condition, the decision to perform surgery was made quickly and a spinal tap was not performed. 
Trephination was performed, with partial resection of the right frontal lesion. Histologic examination showed that the
resected lesion mainly contained abnormalities in the white matter, consisting of a mixture of astrocytes with very 
large and atypical nuclei, lymphocytes, and foamy macrophages. Because of the large frontal lesion, the atypical 
aspect of the nuclei, and the increase in the Ki67-MIB1 proliferation index (?15 percent), a diagnosis of astrocytoma
of World Health Organization grade III was made. The postoperative period was characterized by prolonged 
confusion and somnolence and seizures, treated with phenytoin. After a temporary improvement in the patient?s 
condition, somnolence and confusion again worsened. MRI performed six weeks after surgery showed 
enlargement of the lesions in the right temporal and left frontal lobes and mainly postoperative changes in the right 
frontal lobe. Treatment with corticosteroids was initiated, and radiotherapy was planned. However, the patient?s 
condition deteriorated rapidly, and he died (b) (6) months after the start of corticosteroid therapy, in (b) (6) .  An 
autopsy was not performed. On 01 Mar 2005, all investigational and commercial administrations of natalizumab 
were halted by Elan and Biogen Idec, which prompted them  to reexamine the patient?s course. Testing included 
analysis of diagnostic specimens - formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue was available from the resected 
brain lesion and from colonic biopsy specimens obtained before the treatment with natalizumab was begun. Also, 
fresh-frozen surgical samples from a previous ileocolonic resection. Samples of cerebrospinal fluid and urine were 
not available.  Reexamination of the brain specimens revealed some oligodendrocyte nuclei with a ground-glass 
appearance and a basophilic rim of chromatin  in the relatively spared cortex, findings suggestive of PML.
Immunohistochemical analysis revealed staining of atypical astrocyte nuclei as well as oligodendrocyte nuclei, a 
finding indicative of the presence of polyomavirus particles in the lesion and confirming the diagnosis of PML. In 
contrast to the positive staining in the brain lesion, the intestinal mucosa specimens obtained before the 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 16 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
administration of natalizumab were uniformly negative.  To allow more specific detection of JC virus and to study 
the temporal relationship between the administration of natalizumab and viral replication, they analyzed the 
available serum samples and brain tissue for sequences of the JC virus genome. A quantitative real-time 
polymerase-chain reaction assay using primers specific for JC virus (PEP3 and PEP6), showed no viral DNA was 
detected in serum obtained at multiple times from April 1999 through February 2003 or in the fresh-frozen intestinal 
samples obtained at surgery in 2000 while the patient was being treated with several potentially 
immunosuppressive drugs. However, JC virus DNA was detected in a serum sample obtained two months before 
admission, while the patient was receiving monthly infusions of 300 mg of natalizumab, and had increased by a 
factor of 12 by the time the patient was admitted. In addition, the paraffin-embedded tissue of the brain lesion 
contained a high viral load. The patient had initially received a diagnosis of an astrocytoma on the basis of the 
predominant frontal lesion, a high number of atypical astrocyte nuclei, and an increase in the Ki67-MIB1 
proliferation index in the resected frontal lesion. However, the authors revisited this patient?s course and in 
retrospect, initially circumstantial evidence was already present to support a diagnosis of PML, such as the absence
of contrast enhancement in the brain lesions, the presence of multiple lesions, the presence of foamy 
macrophages, and the finding of ground-glass nuclear oligodendrocyte inclusions on histologic examination. The 
diagnosis was not considered, however, because of the pathology report. Immunostaining for polyomaviral large T 
antigen provided strong evidence of the diagnosis of PML in this patient. Even more convincing were the findings of
high levels of JC virus?specific DNA in the brain lesions and of the same JC virus genome sequences in the serum 
two months before the clinical onset of PML. They found the JC virus genotype 2 in serum and brain samples from 
our patient. JC virus genotypes 1 and 4 are predominant in Europe, but genotype 2 has been associated with the 
development of PML. The authors identified a clear temporal relationship between the monthly natalizumab 
treatments and the occurrence of JC virus replication in our patient. Although he had been treated with 
corticosteroids and the immunomodulators infliximab (a monoclonal antibody against tumor necrosis factor) and 
azathioprine, JC virus DNA appeared in the serum only after the reintroduction of natalizumab as monotherapy. 
Two controlled trials suggesting the efficacy and tolerability of SAM inhibitors in patients with Crohn?s disease led 
to two larger multicenter trials designed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of natalizumab: (b) (6)  involving 
the induction of clinical remission, and (b) (6)  involving the maintenance of natalizumab-induced remission. Our
patient participated in both trials.  The authors noted they cannot exclude the possibility that the intermittent 
lymphopenia in our patient contributed to the reactivation of JC virus.
Update 02 Jul 2014: This case was reported via the literature: Carruthers, R.L and Berger J. Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy and JC Virus-related disease in modern neurology practice. Multiple Sclerosis and Related 
Disorders  Vol. 3, Issue 4.  DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.msard.2014.01.005. No new additional information was 
reported.
Update 06 Jul 2014: This case was reported via the literature: Nicholas J.A, Racke M.C, Imitola J,  Boster A.L. 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 17 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
First-line natalizumab in multiple sclerosis: rationale, patient selection, benefits and risks.Ther Adv Chronic Dis. Mar
2014; 5(2): 62?68. doi:  10.1177/2040622313514790. The author reported that the patient, treated with TYSABRI 
[NTZ] for the indication of Crohn's disease, had experienced PML (onset unknown) as referenced in the article Van 
Assche et al. (2005) (previously reported).
Update 17 Jul 2014: This case was reported via the literature: Pruitt A.A. Nervous system viral infections in 
immunocompromised hosts. Handbook of Clinical Neurology, Vol. 123 (3rd series) Chapter 34. Neurovirology. DOI:
10.1016/B978-0-444-53488-0.00034-1. The author reported that the patient who experienced PML associated with 
natalizumab had received the drug for Crohn?s disease, as referenced in the article Van Assche et al. (2005) 
(previously reported).