Initial Receipt Date = 04/Jul/2014
This serious regulatory authority report received from a healthcare professional refers to a 77 year old female 
patient on Prolia. 
The patient's medical history included osteoporosis, hypertension, mild parkinsonian (2007), magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) with cerebral atrophy and leukoaraiosis (2010), cranial computed tomography (CT) with small vessel
vascular encephalopathy (Jan/2014). Concomitant medications were not provided. 
The patient began Prolia Pre-filled Syringe 60 mg on 15/Apr/2014. The frequency of administration was not 
provided. Approximately (b) (6)  weeks later, on (b) (6)  the patient began with a progressive clinical pattern of 
headache, confusion, memory loss and incoherent conversations. The patient was assessed in consultation and 
subsequently admitted. On an unknown date, CT scan of head was performed which showed hypodensity areas 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 38 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
marked suggesting bilateral edema in white matter which was not present in the CT that realized in Jan/2014. On 
an unknown date in (b) (6)  brain MRI was preformed which showed extensive bilateral areas of demyelination 
suggestive of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was performed 
for John Cunningham (JC) virus, thoraco -abdominal CT scan was normal, lumbar puncture was performed and 
Anodyne was given to patient. It was reported that PML was suspected secondary to Prolia administration and the 
patient has not taken Prolia again. She was improving gradually, almost like in baseline situation. It was reported 
that new brain MRI scan and JC virus test was pending. No treatment information was provided. The outcome of 
the event of progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy was reported as resolving. Prolia was discontinued.
The causal relationship between the event of progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy and Prolia was not 
provided.