Medically Significant
A medical doctor reported via Medical Science liaison that a  44 year old male patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, 
QM) for Crohn's disease from 23 Feb 2009 to 20 Jun 2014 expereinced suspected PML c/b [characterized by] 
visual changes (onset 13 Jul 2014). The patient was diagnosed with Crohn's disease in July 2000.  Previous 
medication included Remicade (infliximab), azathioprine, methotrexate, systemic steroids (NOS), other IM or IS 
therapy (NOS).  Patient not enrolled in Stratify 2.  In Oct 2012 the patient tested positive for JCV antibodies 
(presumed anti-JCV antibodies).  The patient presented to the emergency room on 13 Jul 2014 for visual changed 
that had been progressing over "some time", but was not admitted. The patient underwent a CT in the emergency 
room, which showed a mass, then the patient underwent a MRI which showed lesions suggestive of PML.  At the 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 86 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
time of this report the doctor stated that the patient was being sent to the university hospital and will undergo a 
lumbar puncture to test the CSF for virus. The neurologist was also waiting for a neurology consult from a colleague
who had prior experience with PML and TYSABRI. At the time of the report the neurologist indicated he planned to 
intiate PLEX as soon as possible after the lumbar puncture.  Treatment were not reported. At the time of this report 
the TOUCH database indicated that the patient received a total of 67 doses of TYSABRI from from 23 Feb 2009 to 
20 Jun 2014.  The outcome for the event suspected  PML c/b visual changes is unknown. The causality for the 
event of suspected pmlc/b visual changes is unknown.  TYSABRI therapy was stopped temporarily.
Update 17 Jul 2014:  Upon follow-up the neurologist reported via Medical Science Liaison that the patient 
underwent a lumbar puncture on 17 Jul 2014 with CSF sent to (b) (6)  for JCV DNA testing.
Update 24 Jul 2014: Upon follow up, the neurologist reported that the patient's CSF returned positive from (b) (6)  
at approximately 64,000 copies/mL.  No additional information was reported.
Update 28 Jul 2014: Upon follow-up it was determined that case # 2014BI073297 is duplicate of case # 
2014BI070139. The following information was previously reported in case # 2014BI073297.  [(On 21 Jul 2014)A 
health care professional reported that a  male patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Crohn's disease from 23 
Feb 2009 to 20 Jun 2014 was hospitalized from an unknown date to an unknown date for progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) (onset unknown). Testing and treatment were not reported.  At the time of this report 
the TOUCH database indicated that the patient received a total of 67 doses of TYSABRI from 23 Feb 2009 to 20 
Jun 2014. The event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is ongoing. The causality for the event of
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is unknown.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued.]
Update 30 Jul 2014:  A registered nurse reported via a program of Monitored Therapy that the patient was 
hospitalized from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  due to PML and visual disturbance  (previously reported as  suspected
PML c/b [characterized by] visual changes) and headaches (onsets (b) (6)  discrepant from previous report). 
While the patient was in the hospital he was confirmed to have PML through a lumbar puncture on an unspecified 
date.  Treatment was not reported.  The events of PML, visual disturbance, and headaches were reported as 
resolved.  Causality was assessed as related.  TYSABRI was discontinued. 
Update 06 Aug 2014: A registered nurse from the neurologist's office reported via a program of Monitored Therapy 
that she found no recent records on this patient in the chart and that the patient was last seen in Oct 2013. She has
no information on his recent PML diagnosis. No additional information was reported. 
Update 07 Aug 2014: A registered nurse form the neurologist's office provided additional information. The patient's 
PML diagnosis was confirmed based on lumbar puncture and imaging studies. The patient was cared by the 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 87 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
prescribing physician while hospitalized and had been discharged. The patient received PLEX and was started on 1
to 2 drugs for PML treatment (drug names were not recalled by reporter). The patient has made significant recovery
but he has not been followed up in clinic yet. 
Update 08 Aug 2014: A registered nurse from the neurologist's office reported via a program of Monitored Therapy 
that the JCV antibody testing was ordered in Oct 2013, but was not performed;the patient tested negative in 2012.
The patient did not schedule a follow-up appointment in Apr [2014] as requested during his last medical doctor visit.
 The patient is currently home and he is scheduled for a follow up visit with his neurologist on 12 Aug 2014. Medical
records will be provided. 
Update 08 Aug 2014: A registered nurse from the neurologist's office provided the patient's clinical records via a 
program of Monitored Therapy.  The patient a 44 year old male with a history of Crohn s, experienced a 1-month 
history of vision loss.  The patient stated that for the past 1 month he had experienced a gradual worsening loss of 
vision in his left visual fields.  Initially, the vision loss occurred in short intermittent episodes. These episodes 
gradually became more frequent and more severe until the Friday before admission, during which he had visual 
trouble throughout the entire day.  The patient was hospitalized on (b) (6) .  On (b) (6)  the patient 
underwent a lumbar puncture.  MRI of brain performed on(b) (6) : Impression: The area of T2 and FLAIR 
hyperintensity with minimal enhancement at the right occipital lobe is not significantly changed. The other smaller 
non-enhancing area of T2 and FLAIR hyperintensity in the left retrotrigonal white matter and left occipital lobe 
appear mildly progressed but this may be in part related to use of a higher field magnet on today s exam. These 
bilateral areas appear to involve the expected locations of the optic tracts, particularly on the right. These signal 
abnormalities are non-specific, but could be seen with a reported history of progressive multifocal encephalopathy 
in the appropriate clinical setting. However, other etiologies which include but are not limited to immune 
reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS), a demyelinating process such as multiple sclerosis, or acute 
disseminated encephalomyelitis, other leukoencephalopathies, or even atypical posterior reversal encephalopathy 
syndrome (PRES) are not excluded in the appropriate clinical setting.  On(b) (6)  the patient tested JC virus 
DNA ultrasensitive QN Real-time PCR 4931 copies/mL (reference range <50 copies/mL) from (b) (6)   During 
hospitalization, on an unknown date, the patient tested negative for HIV.  The patient received a total of 5 rounds of 
plasma exchange that occurred on alternating days, ending on (b) (6) . The patient tolerated plasma exchange
well, with only minimal drops in blood pressure. The patient was premedicated with Midodrine in order to 
compensate for this.  The patient was started on Mirtazapine 30 milligrams at bedtime and Maravirac [maraviroc] 
300 milligrams 2 times a day. The patient was discharged home with plans to continue both of these medications, 
and to follow up with his neurologist in 2 weeks with a follow-up MRI in 3 weeks. Throughout the hospital stay, the 
patient only complained of visual changes, at which time he received a brain MRI, which showed no definite change
in the size of his lesion and no contrast enhancement.  The patient was discharged to home on (b) (6)  in 
stable condition.  No additional information was reported. 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 88 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 14 Aug 2014: Upon internal review, Biogen Idec considers this case to be confirmed for PML based on 
clinical symptoms, positive CSF, and MRI findings.
Update 14 Aug 2014: A registered nurse from the neurologist's office reported that the patient did come into the 
neurologist's office for a visit and the patient seemed "well". 
Update 14 Aug 2014: A registered nurse from the neurologist's office provided the clinic visit notes for the male 
patient's 12 Aug 2014 clinic visit. Concomitant medications included colestipol and pantoprazole sodium. The clinic 
notes stated that approximately three months ago the patient experienced decreased vision that worsened, and he 
was admitted to the hospital approximately (b)(6) weeks ago. The patient underwent a lumbar puncture and a brain MRI
(previously reported) and was diagnosed with PML. He received plasmapheresis and started maraviroc. The patient
is scheduled for a follow-up MRI "this coming Friday" (presume 15 Aug 2014) and to see neurology. The patient 
states that he occasionally feels dizzy and has a mild headache, but that is unchanged. His review of systems was 
significant for recent weight gain which was believed to be secondary to Remeron and therefore Remeron 
(mirtazapine) was discontinued. He was still asymptomatic as far as Crohn's. Follow-up visit is planned in 4 weeks. 
Update 20 Aug 2014: The neurologist reported via a TOUCH Discontinuation Questionnaire that the male patient 
with PML (previously reported) tested positive for the presence of anti-JCV antibodies sometime since 27 Feb 2014
(specific date not provided).
Update 03 Sep 2014: Upon an outbound call to the physician's office, a health care professional reported that the 
patient went in for an office visit on 02 Sep 2014.  The clinic note from this visit was provided.  The patient was 
admitted to the hospital for severe headache and vision changes (previously reported as PML characterized by 
visual changes).  The patient was diagnosed with migraine headache (previously reported as headache).  No 
evidence of recurrent Crohn's disease was noted and the patient has not really had progression of his neuro 
symptoms.  Per ophthalmology, the patient still has good visual acuity by visual field deficits. The patient restarted 
mirtazapine due to recent onset of migraine headache. TYSABRI therapy was discontinued.  The patient is 
scheduled for a follow-up visit on 30 Sep 2014 and MRI.
Update 03 Oct 2014: A registered nurse from the neurologist's office provided the male patient's brain MRI report 
from 12 Sep 2014 and the clinic visit notes for the patient's clinic visit on 30 Sep 2014.  Results of brain MRI on 12 
Sep 2014 showed significant interval progression of the signal abnormality involving the bilateral occipital lobes with
extension into the splenium via the left side now with significant progression of an irregular enhancement with 
multiple new scattered punctate foci of enhancement within the white matter of the bilateral cerebral hemispheres 
(right greater than left) with the overall constellation causing some mass effect with mild progression of midline shift
towards the left although none of the individual structures because significant mass effect except for some sulcal 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 89 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
effacement. Given the patient s history this could represent some progression of the Immune Reconstitution 
Inflammatory Syndrome (IRIS) (onset unknown) although other etiology such as lymphoma is a consideration 
although considered less likely given the lack of diffusion restriction and the delay in enhancement on serial exams.
There was also some new FLAIR hyperintensity in the sulci along mostly the bilateral frontoparietal apices without 
definitive abnormal enhancement which could be related to a nonspecific inflammatory process such as the 
reported IRIS although other etiologies are not excluded. Further evaluation with CSF analysis may be helpful. The 
clinic notes indicate that the was admitted to the hospital (dates not provided) for headaches and vision changes. 
The patient was treated with steroids (NOS) for worsening PML. The patient is finishing [steroid] pulse taper, 
miraviroc continues. Vision has now improved, and the patient's overall status is improved. PML/IRIS symptoms 
seem to have stabilized. The patient's Crohn's symptoms are still controlled with no increase in diarrhea, no 
bleeding, and no abdominal pain.  It was noted that colestipol is not helping as well; however, no additional therapy 
is needed at the time of this report. The patient will try EnteraGam (serum-derived bovine immunoglobulin/protein 
isolate) to help with diarrhea symptoms. Newly reported current medication included Excedrin Migraine 
(acetaminophen, aspirin, caffeine).  Follow-up visit is planned in 2 months.
Update 11 Nov 2014: Additional information was received from the physician via a Standardized Crohn s Disease 
PML Data Collection Tool. The patient was diagnosed with CD in 2005 (discrepant from previous report). Prior CD 
therapy included 5-ASA agent, azathioprine (stopped 2005), and Humira (adalimumab) (stopped 2007).  Estimated 
Karnofsky scores were reported as follows: 100 (normal, no complaints; no evidence of disease) in Aug 2009, 100 
in Apr 2014, and 60 (requires occasional assistance but is able to care for most of his personal needs) in Jun 2014.
The patient had a negative HIV test result in Jul 2014. Brain biopsy and additional lumbar punctures were not done.
In Jul 2014, the patient underwent a total of five PLEX sessions. PML treatment included the following medications: 
mirtazapine 15 mg PO QHS from Jul 2014 to present; corticosteroids (NOS) from Sep 2014 to Oct 2014; and 
Selzentry (maraviroc) 300 mg PO BID from Jul 2014 until present.  As of 11 Nov 2014, the patient is alive, residing 
at home, and has recovered from PML. Causality for the event was assessed as related to TYSABRI.  The patient 
was on TYSABRI from Sep 2009 (discrepant from previous report) until Jun 2014.  TYSABRI was discontinued in 
Jun 2014 due to PML.
Update 19 Feb 2015: Additional information was received from the physician via a Standardized Crohn's Disease 
PML Data Collection Tool. At the time of the report, the patient was alive, residing at home, and was not on any 
therapy for CD. The physician reported that the patient had persistent visual field defect on the left side which 
prevented him from performing duties of employment, and that he was seeking disability. The physician assessed 
the patient s estimated Karnofsky score on 19 Feb 2015 to be 70 (cares for self; unable to carry on normal activity 
or to do active work). The patient was diagnosed with IRIS, which was determined by clinical symptoms (left visual 
field defect; onset Oct 2014) and MRI findings. Treatment for IRIS included miraviroc (discontinued Jan 2015) and 
prednisone (discontinued Jan 2015). No additional lumbar punctures have been performed. As of 15 Jan 2015, the 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 90 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
patient had recovered from PML and had recovered from IRIS. Causality for the events was assessed as related to 
TYSABRI.
Update 11 Aug 2015: Additional information was received from the physician via a Standardized Crohn's Disease 
PML Data Collection Tool. At the time of the report, the patient was alive and current location was unknown. The 
patient's current functional status and current Crohn's disease therapy were reported as unknown. The physician 
reported on 04 Aug 2015 that the patient had recovered from PML and had recovered from IRIS. Causality for the 
events was assessed as related to TYSABRI.