Medically Significant
The below information is a case summary from 17 Jul 2014 to 05 Mar 2015:
This case concerns a 46 year old female patient on Tysabri for MS x 82 infusions from Aug 2007 to 29 Apr 2014; 
her MS onset date is unknown, her only prior MS therapy was Rebif(beta interferon 1-a) from 1998 to 2002. She 
has tested serum anti JCV Antibody positive since Feb 2011 with most recent antibody index value of 3.34 in Jan 
2014. Other significant medical history included paralytic polio-syndrome since 1975 with consecutive 
musculoskeletal deformities of lower extremities more pronounced on the left side. 
On 21 May 2014, she presented with a 5 day history of increasingly slurred speech, unsteady gait, and increasing 
coordination disorder when writing; EDSS at this time was 6.5. The patient was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to 
(b) (6)   Brain MRIs from 11 Jan 2013 and 21 Jan 2014 (prior to PML) were unchanged and showed no 
evidence of PML. Brain MRI on 22 May 2014, when compared to 21 Jan 2014, noted new wide-spread confluent 
signal hyperintensities in the subcortical white matter of the right lateral corona radiata, right pre-central gyrus , 
superior right parietal lobe and in both hemispheres of the cerebellum. CSF for JCV PCR obtained on 21 May 2014 
returned positive at 202 copies/ ml from the (b) (6)  a serum sample obtained at the same time 
also returned from (b) (6) JCV PCR positive at 270 copies/ ml. Additionally, on 22 and (b) (6)  blood was 
taken for determination of CD62-L-selectin percentage, which revealed a result of 47.3 %. On (b) (6)
patient's serum was again tested positive for anti-JCV-antibodies.
A neuro-psychological examination on (b) (6)  and 10 Jun showed an organic disturbance of personality and 
behavior due to acute PML with severe generalized cognitive deficits but with preserved general orientation and 
preserved biographical memory. Differential diagnostically pre-existing mild cognitive disorder in the scope of MS 
could be assumed. In addition mild dysarthria and organic affective disturbance were observed. At the time of 
evaluation the intensity was like a mild dementia. In comparison to the previous examination, a mild general 
impairment; just mild dysarthria and organic affective disturbance in the scope of the basic disease were observed. 
Relevant laboratory values are reported in the laboratory section. The patient showed dysarthria, ataxia more 
accentuated on the right side and mood alterations with crying and distance-reduced behavior. Examinations for 
initially reported diarrhea did not reveal infectious reasons. The patient was treated with immune-adsorption to 
eliminate Tysabri which was well tolerated. During the course in hospital the patient showed mild impairment of 
ataxia, she reported mild falls, however without external signs of injury or indication of pain. Additionally progression
of the organic psycho-syndrome was observed, the patient increasingly presented cognitive disturbance with the 
intensity of a mild dementia, although with sufficient orientation concerning her person and situation. Therapy with 
mirtazapine, levetiracetam and Lariam (mefloquine) was initiated and was well tolerated; the patient did not 
experience epileptic seizures. The mild progression of the leuko-encephalopathical findings seen in the MRI on (b)(6)  
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 95 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(b) (6)  was without contrast medium enhancement; therefore florid IRIS was not yet diagnosed. Urinary tract 
infection with increased infection parameters was treated with Cotrim (sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim). Medication 
at discharge included in addition to the above mentioned Tavor (lorazepam) 0.5mg BID and subcutaneous 
fraxiparin 0.3ml QD. The patient was discharged to rehabilitation therapy.
Cranial MRI on (b) (6)  showed a subcortically accentuated cerebral atrophy. Signs of MS were distinct 
supratentorial lesions with extended confluent periventricular T2 lesions with participation of the significantly 
atrophic corpus callosum. Also in the infratentorial region MS typical lesions were evidenced in the right pons and 
the right medulla oblongata. Additionally distinct extended T2 signal enhancements in the cerebellar peduncles and 
in both sides of the cerebellar region were seen. On [01 Jul 2014] MRI showed a progressive extended expansion 
of the T2 hyperintense signal alterations especially infratentorial bilateral in the cerebellar peduncles and in both 
sides of the cerebellar region as well as supratentorial in the corona radiata, right paracentral and right temporal up 
to subcortical involving the U-fibers. The MRI gave no evidence for an IRIS, no proof of BBB disorder, areas with 
diffusion disturbance or masses. The imaging continued to be consistent with the diagnosis of PML.
Biogen confirmed this case of PML based on clinical presentation, positive CSF and presence of radiologic 
evidence of PML on 24 Jul 2014.
The patient was hospitalized again from(b) (6)  to (b) (6)  Diagnoses included PML, suspicion of IRIS, 
organic brain syndrome, left- and leg accentuated ataxic tetraparesis, dysarthria, dysphagia, recurrent urinary tract 
infections, focal seizures, and pneumonia of left lower lobe. The patient was transferred from rehabilitation facility 
due to suspicion of IRIS.  After discharge the patient initially had improved; in the further course she had 
experienced clinical impairment of the left accentuated ataxic tetraparesis as well as of the dysarthria and 
dysphagia. The subsequent cranial MRI on 20 Jun 2014 had displayed a discrete small spotted contrast medium 
enhancement in the right posterior horn of the ventricle. The mental examination showed an alert patient who was 
orientated concerning situation and place, who followed requests correctly, however was instable concerning her 
affect with pathological crying, and had cognitive deficits particularly of her short term memory. The neurological 
examination revealed the pathological findings of saccadic pursuit, left facial paresis, dysarthria, dysphagia and 
dysarthrophonia. The motor system showed left- and leg accentuated ataxic tetraparesis, the deep tendon reflexes 
were activated on both sides with emphasis on the right side, pyramidal signs were positive on both sides, the 
finger-to-nose test was ataxic with accentuation on the right side. The patient currently was not able to walk and 
required support for transfer. EDSS was 8.0.  A neurological examination on (b) (6)  showed moderate 
dysphagia a PEG tube was inserted without complications on (b) (6)  and adequate nutrition was applied. In 
the further course the patient clinically impaired in regard to her vigilance, she partly did not follow requests, her 
verbal production impoverished. A consecutive MRI showed progression of the extensive T2 signal enhancements 
on the right side in the white matter as well as progressive infratentorial lesions as signs of increase of IRIS.  In 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 96 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
addition the patient s infection parameters increased and antibiotic therapy with Clindamycin was initiated; thoracic 
x-ray control did not show infiltrates. Because the patient s vigilance deteriorated clinically she was transferred to 
intermediate care for continuous monitoring of her vital signs on (b) (6) . The focus of infection was a nitrite 
positive urinary tract infection with proof of Enterobacter cloacae and Klebsiella oxytoca in urinalyses which was 
successfully treated with ciprofloxacine according to the resist gram. Thus 5-day steroid pulse therapy with 500mg 
Urbason (methylprednisolone) was administered from (b) (6)  to (b) (6) . On this therapy the patient s 
vigilance slightly improved, the vital signs were continuously stable, and the patient was re-transferred to normal 
ward on (b) (6) . In the further course the patient s general condition continued to improve, a current CSF 
analysis showed decreasing JCV-DNA copies. A new MRI control however showed, in contrast to the clinical 
improvement, progression of the extensive T2 signal enhancement in the fronto-parietal and occipital regions of the
right white matter. Additionally the already known lesion in the right hemisphere was displayed with increasing 
edema and constriction of the lateral ventricles. Contrast medium enhancement was seen in the right-sided parietal
and occipital regions. However, the patient continued to improve clinically. In the further course the patient again 
developed a urinary tract infection which was treated with Ciprobay. Also dysphagia did not improve. The patient 
developed fever and became drowsy; thoracic x-ray showed pneumonia basally left, presumably aspiration 
pneumonia. Antibiotic therapy included Tazobac (tazobactam) and Klacid (clarithromycin) liquid for 10 days which 
resulted in a distinct clinical improvement. The focal seizures of the left arm continued and therapy was adjusted to 
Vimpat (lacosamide) liquid leading to suspension of the seizures. A new CSF analysis showed a decreasing virus 
load. The patient was transferred back to the in-house neurologic rehabilitation facility in stable condition on 26 Aug 
Cranial MRI and MRI of the cervical spine on (b) (6)  revealed the following: known MS, acute PML, now 
progression of findings since (b) (6)  (last MRI), accentuated by the extensive T2 signal enhancements on the 
right side in the white matter. Additionally there were progressive infratentorial lesions both in the cerebellar 
hemispheres and cerebellar peduncles as well as in the brain stem. Newly occurred patchy BBB disorder in the 
white matter and in the right temporal region were seen. Unchanged extension of the MS typical lesions were 
displayed which were particularly located along the callosum and in the juxtacortical region. Cranial MRI native and 
with contrast medium on (b) (6)  was evaluable only to a limited extend due to partly very strong movement 
artefacts. Three weeks after the last MRI there was an image morphological progression of the findings concerning 
an extensive T2 signal intensity in the fronto-parietal and occipital regions of the right white matter. Progression in 
size of the T2 signal intense lesions especially in the occipital region of the right hemisphere was displayed with 
increasing edema and consecutive slight constriction of the lateral ventricle and narrowing of the cortical gyri. After 
intravenous contrast medium administration increasing contrast medium enhancement was seen in the right-sided 
parietal and occipital regions. Otherwise no indicative changes of findings and no shift of the falx were found. 
Compared to previous MRI continuously distinct infratentorial lesions both in the cerebellar hemispheres and 
cerebellar peduncles as well as in the brain stem were seen. Unchanged extension of the MS typical lesions were 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 97 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
displayed which were particularly located along the callosum and in the juxtacortical region. 
Thoracic x-ray on (b) (6)  was without pathological findings. Thoracic x-ray on (b) (6)  evidenced signs of 
an infiltrate, otherwise without pathological findings. CSF puncture on(b) (6)  showed 2/3 cells per ul, 2/3 
lymphocytes, 384/3 erythrocytes, protein of 235mg/l, lactate 1.34mmol/l, glucose of 61mg/dl. JCV-DNA in CSF was 
12,800k/ml, JCV-DNA in serum was 825k/ml, both analyzed at the (b) (6)  On (b) (6)  JCV-
DNA in CSF was 1,870k/ml, JCV-DNA in serum was 956k/ml, both analyzed at the (b) (6) . On 28 
Aug 2014 JCV-DNA in CSF was 150k/ml, JCV-DNA in serum was 120k/ml, both analyzed at the(b) (6)
(b) (6)  Relevant laboratory values are reported in the laboratory section. 
The patient was hospitalized in a rehabilitation facility from 27 Aug 2014 to 05 Nov 2014. Diagnoses included PML, 
IRIS with increase of pre-existing neurological deficits (spastic tetraparesis, facial paresis left, dysarthria, 
dysphagia, organic affective disorder, dyskinesia right arm) diagnosed in Jun 2014, insertion of PEG, urinary tract 
infection caused by S.maracenses on 16 Jul 2014, bronchopneumonia caused by an unknown organism in the left 
basal lobe on 15 Oct 2014, and MRSA colonization of nose and throat. Neurological examination on admission: 
high-grade facial paresis left with tongue deviation to the left side, severe dysarthrophonia, severe dysphagia, 
spastic tetraparesis more pronounced on the left side accompanied by functional hemiplegia left and distinctive 
hemiataxia right with moderate spastic hemiparesis right; urinary incontinence with permanent transurethral bladder
catheter; psychomotor slowing with impaired vigilance.  Cranial MRI on 01 Sep 2014 showed significant progress of
PML (differential diagnosis of cryptococcosis) in an immunocompromised patient. Lumbar puncture was performed 
and JCV DNA PCR in CSF and serum returned negative from the laboratory of the (b) (6) f on 29 
Sep 2014. The patient was considered having further activity in the scope of IRIS and was given cortisone pulse 
therapy with prednisolone 1000 mg for 5 days from 27 Oct 2014 to 31 Oct 2014. On discharge, the patient still 
presented poor trunk control while sitting; head control was possible while sitting; ataxia on the right, sitting on the 
edge of the bed was possible with the help of a therapist.  The vigilance improved slowly. The patient still was not 
able to actively contribute to the activities and was dependent on full support. Sitting in a wheelchair was possible 
for 2 - 3 hours twice a day. The patient was difficult to understand and had concentration and orientation (local and 
chronological orientation) impairment. Dysarthrophonia and dysphagia did not improve. Oral food intake was not 
possible. Other neurological deficits persisted. Laboratory test results: On 13 Oct 2014, WBC was 8.3 Tsd/mcl 
(normal range 4.3  10.0); on 20 Oct 2014, WBC was 8.91 Tsd/mcl; on 03 Nov 2014, WBC was 12.19 Tsd/mcl.
On 20 Oct 2014, lymphocytes were 17 % (normal range 25 - 45); on 03 Nov 2014, lymphocytes were 22 %.
The patient was hospitalized again from (b) (6)  to (b) (6) . The patient was admitted due to deterioration
of speech and swallowing. Differential diagnosis on admission included progression of PML or MS relapse. Cranial 
MRI showed unchanged findings in comparison with the previous examination. Brain edema was regredient. Florid 
inflammatory lesions or progression of PML was not evidenced. Lumbar puncture was performed and JCV PCR 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 98 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
test in CSF returned negative. JCV antibodies were 1212 AU/ml. Mefloquine was discontinued. Dysarthria and 
swallowing disorder did not significantly improve. Of note was that the patient often stroked with her right arm 
rhythmically. Focal seizure was suspected initially, but no pathological findings were seen in the EEG. Cranial MRI 
on (b) (6)  significant improvement of edematous contrast enhancing lesions. In the temporo-parietal region 
on the right, there was a distinct involution of parenchyma and scarring as well as residual enhancement at the 
cortex level. Further contrast enhancements were not clearly definable any longer. Mesencephalon pontine and 
cerebellar edema appeared regressive. No ischemia, no bleeding. Relevant laboratory values are reported in the 
laboratory section.
Update 14 Jul 2015: In response to a request for follow-up information, the neurologist reported via medical record. 
The patient has medical history of paralytic polio-syndrome since 1975 with consecutive musculoskeletal 
deformities of the lower extremities more pronounced on the left (previously reported). A cranial MRI was 
performed in (b) (6)  compared with the previous examination (date unknown), there was significant 
improvement of edematous contrast-enhancing lesions in the scope of the known PML. Particularly, marked 
involution of the parenchyma / sclerosis with residual enhancement at the cortex level was displayed in the right 
temporoparietal region. Further focal contrast enhancements could no longer be defined; mesencephalon in the 
pontine region and cerebellar edema appeared to be regressive as well. No acute or sub-acute ischemia, no 
hemorrhage. The patient was seen at the hospital outpatient facility on 26 Jun 2015. The patient was known with 
PML under TYSABRI diagnosed in May 2014, status post IRIS with increasing of pre-existing deficits diagnosed in 
Jun 2014, RRMS with additional chronic progredient component (first manifestation in 1991), PEG insertion in 2014
and status post urinary tract infections in Jan 2015. Functional diagnoses of patient include severe dysarthrophonia 
with swallowing disorder, severe spastic tetraparesis with left functional hemiplegia, tremor of the right arm, and 
fatigue. Upon physical examination, the patient was in the wheelchair and as reported by the mother, there was 
somewhat increased salivation noticed recently. However, it appeared that she would not choke on it. The 
neurological examination showed the patient was tired, but adequately contactable. Severe dysarthrophonia with 
only single words could be understood. Examination of cranial nerves showed saccadic eye movements, 
intermittent spontaneous nystagmus to the right (more pronounced when looking right), bulbus mobility restricted to
the right, the midline could be crossed. The patient had high-level left facial paresis, tongue deviation to the left, and
soft palate was not seen. Motor system examination showed high-level tetraparesis with functional hemiplegia left 
with spastic hypertonia, muscle weakness right, and moderate to severe hemiparesis right. The patient reported no 
sensory deficits and mild imperative urge micturition. An electroencephalogram (EEG) was performed on an 
unknown date due to rhythmic motor movements, and was negative for suspicion of epilepsy.  It was then assumed
that the patient had tremor.  Treatment for increased salivation included a scopolamine patch.  The treating 
neurologist recommended MS therapy with glatiramer acetate, with an MRI prior to initiation.
Update 21 Jul 2015: Additional follow-up was received from the neurologist. The patient is currently in a nursing 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 99 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
home.