A neurologist reported via a Medical Science Liasison  that a  54 year old male patient  on TYSABRI (300 mg, QM, 
IV) from 14 May 2009 to 22 Apr 2014 experienced  PML characterized by numbness (onset Jul 2014).  The event of
PML  is ongoing. The causality for the event of diagnosed with PML is unknown.The patient was initially negative for
JCV test (date unk) but a second test (date unk) confirmed JCV. Prior to diagnoses of PML the patient had 
numbness and an MRI (date unk) showed additional lesion. The patient is currently in rehabilitation. At the time of 
this report the TOUCH database indicated the patient received 29 infusions of TYSABRI from 14 May 2009 to 22 
Apr 2014.
Update 01 Aug 2014: A neurologist reported, via a Biogen Idec Medical Science Liaison, that both neurologists 
believe this to be confirmed PML. In May 2012, patient was serum JCV Ab (-). At time of PML diagnosis, patient 
was serum JCV Ab (+) (date of test unknown). The patient has no prior history with immunosuppressants but was 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 143 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
previously treated with AVONEX (interferon beta 1a). In (b) (6)  a neurologist noticed the patient had increased 
R sided numbness, increased R sided weakness, and gait ataxia. An MRI was performed at that time (specific date
in (b) (6)  unknown) which revealed 1 small  dime-size lesion in the middle cerebellar peduncle. Steroids were 
started, for possible MS relapse. One week later, the symptoms worsened, which lead to performing a second MRI 
(unknown date in (b) (6) ) which revealed that the lesion had enlarged. This lead to increased suspicion of PML. 
The patient was then hospitalized ((b) (6) ) at a local hospital and PLEX was started. While hospitalized, on (b)(6)  
(b) (6)   the patient had a LP with CSF JCV DNA which came back negative for JCV DNA (lab where testing 
occurred unknown) . The patient?s serum was also tested at this time for JCV DNA at (b) (6)  ((b) (6) ) 
which had also come back negative; therefore, on that bases, they were less suspicious for PML and were also 
considering CNS lymphoma. While trying to determine diagnosis (MS relapse vs. PML vs. CNS lymphoma) the 
patient continued to be managed with steroids.  Post PLEX therapy, the patient?s symptoms were not improving, 
and the patient was referred to a medical center. The patient was discharged to rehabilitation, but there was a delay
in being seen by a neurologist who admitted the patient and a brain biopsy was performed on (b) (6)  which 
confirmed PML. In mid-July, the patient was discharged back to rehabilitation (specific date of d/c unknown). On (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  the patient was hospitalized again at a local hospital due to IRIS, (having undergone plasmapheresis 6 
wks. prior) and steroids were administered for IRIS. The patient will be returning to rehabilitation soon with 
continued neurological rehabilitation.
Update 19 Aug 2014: The patient's wife reported, via a Biogen Idec sponsored program of Monitored Therapy, that 
the patient would not be taking TYSABRI any longer. She advised that he has been hospitalized since (b) (6)
because he had PML, couldn't see or couldn't walk (presume symptoms of PML). No further information was 
provided.
Update 20 Aug 2014: Follow-up information received from the neurologist included medical records.   On (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  MRI of the brain, indicated due to right facial numbness, showed multiple scattered areas of T2/FLAIR 
sequence hyperintensity in the frontal and parietal lobes, additional foci are present in the cerebellar peduncles.
These foci do not enhance.  These foci typically are seen in patients with long-standing hypertension and/or 
diabetes and represent white matter ischemic change, however given the patient's age as well as some atypical 
foci within the cerebellar peduncles, other etiologies of post infectious or post inflammatory etiology may also give 
this appearance, including demyelinating disease.  No evidence of acute of subacute infarct.  DVA in the right 
cerebellar vermis.
On (b) (6)  the patient was admitted to the hospital via the emergency room with complaints of weakness, 
dizziness, right-sided facial numbness for the past week that got worse of the past two days.  The patient 
underwent two infusions of Solu-Medrol (methylprednisolone) on an outpatient basis but did not improve and came 
to the hospital for evaluation.  Secondary diagnoses (presume PMH) included body mass index 50-59.9, optic 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 144 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
neuritis, diabetes mellitus type 2, hyperlipidemia, obstructive sleep apnea, benign hypertension, obesity, history of 
tobacco use, and abnormality of gait.  On (b) (6)  WBC was 9.1 K/UL (reference range 4.0 - 11.0) and 
hemoglobin was 14.6 g/dL (reference range 13.5 - 17.5).  On (b) (6)  MRI of the cervical spine, indicated due
to MS exacerbation/flare, showed subtle signal changes in the cervical cord compatible with demyelinating disease 
given the history of MS.  No cord expansion to suggest cord edema and no cord enhancement to suggest active 
demyelinating lesions.  The true extent of the cervical cord abnormality is difficult to differentiate from artifact 
related to technical factors/motion but the most prominent lesions appear to be in the dorsal cord at the C2 level 
and in the central cord at C4-5.  There was also multilevel degenerative disc disease.  Testing performed on (b)(6)  
(b) (6) , revealed serum JCV DNA PCR <500 copies/ml( reference range <500) performed by (b) (6) .
The patient also tested negative for NMO / AQP4-Igg (neuromyelitis optica antibodies) at this time.  During the 
patient's hospital course, he was given treatment with IV Solu-Medrol, was getting better, was able to walk better, 
his gait improved, but he still remained weak and slightly unstable.  On (b) (6) , the patient was discharged to 
rehabilitation facility to improve his gait and strength.  Upon discharge, the patient was recommended to continue 
his regular medications.  He was also prescribed Norco (acetaminophen and hydrocodone) for pain, Cipro 
(ciprofloxacin) for UTI (onset unknown), amlodipine/benzapril, vitamin B12, ferrous sulfate, glipizide XL, Crestor 
(rosuvastatin), and Janumet (sitagliptin and metformin HCl).
On (b) (6)  the patient was transferred back to the hospital for further evaluation and treatment due to 
weakness, numbness of the left side, and difficulty in speech.  Additional secondary diagnoses (presume PMH) 
from the previous visit included chronic sinusitis, dysarthria, lack of coordination, and visual spatial defect.  On an 
unspecified date WBC was 7.8, hemoglobin 14.3, hematocrit 41.9, and platelet count 150.  On (b) (6)  MRI 
of the brain, indicated due to altered mental status and worsening right-sided facial numbness, showed significant 
change in the appearance of a lesion within the right brachium pontis of the pons of the brainstem when compared 
to the previous study of (b) (6)   This lesion has significantly increased in size and now measures 
approximately 2.3 x 2.5 cm in size and involves much of the posterior right brachium pontis and does demonstrate 
some partial nodular enhancement.  The differential diagnoses include a rapidly progressing MS plaque versus a 
rapidly progressing glioma.  No significant mass effect is seen.  Stable additional white matter lesions in the right 
and left cerebral hemisphere which do not enhance and are stable.  Since the previous study, there has been the 
development of a significant pansinusitis with air-fluid levels in the sinuses.  Stable linear enhancing vessel in the 
right cerebellar hemisphere more likely a stable inconsequential venous angioma or developmental venous 
anomaly.  On(b) (6)  spinal puncture with fluoroscopic guidance was performed and 10 cc of clear CSF 
spinal fluid was collected for analysis and to evaluate for possible lymphoma of glioma versus MS lesion.  On (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  the patient had a venous catheter placed and underwent plama exchange for three days to remove 
[unspecified] from the blood stream.  After plasmapheresis, the patient's condition did not improve.  He also 
received some infusions of immunoglobulins that again did not improve his condition.  On (b) (6) , MRI of the 
brain, indicated due to exacerbation of MS symptoms, showed foci of superficial and deep white matter change in 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 145 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
the cerebellum and cerebrum compatible with demyelinating plaque.  There was a solitary enhancing focus in the 
right middle cerebellar peduncle and this finding had shown interval increase in size and had a larger region of 
enhancement since (b) (6)  suggesting ongoing active inflammation/demyelination.  On (b) (6)  the 
patient was transferred to tertiary care for continuation of treatment and further testing.
On 18 Jul 2014, MRI of the brain, indicated due to MS and numbness of the right side of the face, arm, and leg, 
showed enlarging atypical demyelinating lesion in the right brachium pontis (cerebellar pedicle) and dorsal midbrain
with mild right ventrolateral effacement of the forth ventricle.  Lesion measures 2.5 x 2.3 cm with slight increase.
Morphologic change with anterior and superior marginal enhancement.  Restricted diffusion consistent with an 
active lesion.  Multiple bilateral cerebral demyelinating lesions consistent with MS, unchanged.  Right cerebellar 
venous angioma redemonstrated.
Update 12 Sep 2014: Information was received via a poster presented at the 2014 Joint Annual Meeting of the 
Americas Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ACTRIMS) and the European Committee 
for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ECTRIMS), Boston, MA. Stefoski D, Balabanov R, Ko M, Strong 
J, Hernandez C, Muth C, Mercurio M, Javed A (September 2014). Fifteen non-fatal outcomes in natalizumab-
associated PML/IRIS: the effects of early diagnosis and evolving novel therapeutic approaches. The authors 
reported 15 patients with MS with PML occurring after 14-70 months of natalizumab treatments as well as 2 
additional PML patients in early phases of treatment and recovery.  This case refers to one of the two PML patietns 
in the early phases of treatment and recovery.  No conclusive information was available. A corresponding abstract 
(P858) was published in the Multiple Sclerosis Journal 20 (S1) 2014. Retrieved from msj.sagepub.com.
Update 26 Sep 2014: Follow-up information included pathology results of the brain biopsy performed on 30 Jun 
2014.  The final diagnosis was necrotizing inflammatory lesion.  The biopsy findings were consistent with an 
immune-mediated necrotizing process with associated secondary demyelination.  In aa patient with a history of MS 
treated with TYSABRI, the findings were most consistent with PML-IRIS.  There was no evidence of a glioma of 
lymphoproliferative disorder.  H & E (Hematoxylin and eosin) stained sections showed a sharply-demarcated lesion 
to surrounding brain tissue with marked axonal loss and axonal swellings and with secondary demyelination.  The 
lesional tissue showed prominent rarefaction, microglial activation and astrocliosis with occasional atypia.  No glial 
inclusions were identified however.  There were many blood vessels with perivascular inflammation but without 
atypia, as well as intraparenchymal lymphocytes.  Intraparenchymal plasma cells were also found.  By 
immunohistochemistry, the inflammatory cells were predominantly CD8/CD3 positive with fewer CD4 positive cells 
and essentially no CD20 positive cells.  CD8 also highlighted in many intraparenchymal inflammatory cells. CD68 
highlighted many microglial cells and macrophages in the lesional area.  GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein) showed
reactive gliosis and neurofilament stain highlighted the axonal swellings.  An H & E - Luxol and PAS (periodic acid-
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 146 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Schiff) stains highlighted the loss of myelin in the affected area while the surrounding brain tissue showed 
preserved myelination.  Anti-SV40 did not highlight any viral inclusions.  MIB-1 highlighed inflammatory cells and 
few reactive glial cells.  1DH1 was negative while p53 showed weak nuclear immunoreactivity in few cells.  Stain for
toxoplasma was negative.
A progress note from 24 Jul 2014 indicated the patient had had a brain MRI on 24 Jun 2014 (prior to MRI on 18 Jul 
2014) which showed the lesion in the right middle cerebellar peduncle measuring ~27 mm.  The degree of contrast 
enhancement was marginally less pronounced on the 18 Jul 2014 scan.  The persistent PML/IRIS with insignificant 
difference in size over nearly one month was suggestive of persistent inflammation which suggested that the 
elimination of JCV should have been completed and it was recommended to "shut down" the IRIS to prevent 
unnecessary further inflammation-related tissue disease.  Therefore, it was recommended to administer high-dose 
corticosteroids intravenously over 3-5 days followed by oral taper over a few weeks and follow-up brain MRIs to 
ascertain elimination of ongoing inflammatory processes.
Additionally, upon internal review, it was noted that the patient received a total of 62 infusions of TYSABRI 
(previously reported as 29).
Update 30 Sep 2014: Follow-up information received from a healthcare provider indicated the patient was 
diagnosed with PML and hospitalized, but now at home.  The patient was seen at the MDO on 15 Sep 2014 and 
started on Copaxone (glatiramer acetate).
Update 14 Oct 2014: The patient's wife reported that the patient discontinued TYSABRI in Apr because he 
contracted PML, which has taken his ability to walk or talk.
Update 27 Oct 2014: The neurologist reported, via a TOUCH Prescribing Program Discontinuation Questionnaire, 
that the patient, enrolled in a Biogen Idec sponsored program of Monitored Therapy, was still alive, had PML, was 
negative for anti-JCV antibodies (unknown date, since (b) (6) ), and had a positive biopsy (presume 
previously reported brain biopsy).  No further information was provided.
Update 11 Dec 2014: Biogen Idec considers this case high suspect and final call for PML on 11 Dec 2014 as the 
brain biopsy results were not specific for PML and after multiple attempts, further follow up was unsuccessful. This 
case will be closed and no additional follow-up is expected.
Update Feb 23 2015: Information was received via an abstract presented at the 52nd Annual Meeting of the 
Association of Academic Physiatrists (AAP); San Antonio, TX; USA. Navarasala, Anand M., D.O; Srigiriraju, 
Padma, MD (Conference Date: 09 Mar 2015). JC Virus Antibody Negative PML IRIS Following Natalizumab 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 147 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Treatment for Multiple Sclerosis. (Data Source: Insight Medmeme). The authors described the 53 year old male 
with a history of relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) diagnosed in 2007 was admitted to the rehabilitation 
hospital for MS exacerbation. Patient had a history of natalizumab therapy from Feb 2009 to May 2014 and was 
noted to be JCV antibody negative. He was sent to the ED following acute worsening right facial numbness, 
paresthesias and right sided weakness. He was admitted and treated with IV steroids and IVIG without benefit. 
Work up for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) was started. Plasma exchange was done to 
remove natalizumab. CSF analysis was negative for JC virus. MRI showed enlarging lesion of right middle 
cerebellar peduncle. Biopsy was positive for PML with IRIS (Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome). 
Following readmission to the rehabilitation hospital the patient was sent out for a five day course of IV steroid 
treatment. Following four weeks of subacute rehabilitation the patient showed tremendous progress with mobility 
and activities of daily living. The facial weakness improved along with dysarthria. The authors concluded that the 
prognosis of natalizumab induced PML-IRIS is good with 80% survival following one year based on available 
evidence and inpatient rehabilitation following IV steroid therapy is crucial to maximize functional recovery allowing 
the patient to safely return to the home setting.