AER 1443929 is a spontaneous case, received on 30/Jul/2014 from rheumatologist via company representative 
(source identification number : 6892014, GBMHRAEYC00113539) and concerns a 48 year old female patient, who 
developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), white matter disease, leucodystrophy, cough, visual 
blurring, shortness of breath and cognitive deficits while being treated with rituximab (MabThera).
The patient's medical history included joint pain (2001), erosions, surgery at both visits and arthroplasty of wrist 
(2007). Past drugs included methotrexate (2003 to 2004, stopped due to vomiting), sulfasalazine (Salazopyrin, 
started in 2005 and stopped due to vomiting) and etanercept (Nov/2008 to Sep/2009, stopped because of 
ineffectiveness). Concomitant medications included prednisolone. No concurrent conditions were reported. the 
patient had no immunodeficiency, chronic viral infections, bone marrow or solid bone transplant, herpes simplex, 
herpes zoster, history of opportunistic infections, cytomegalo virus (CMV) pneumocystic carinii pneumonia.
In 2002, the patient was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis/sjogren's made. On an unspecified date in /Nov/2009, 
she started first pair of intravenous rituximab infusion 1 g (given as a pair 2 weeks apart every 6 months) for 
rheumatoid arthritis. She received rituximab for 3 years. In Apr/2013, she received last pair of rituximab infusion. 
She became symptomatic last summer (/2013), could not think and could not see. Subsequently, she was 
diagnosed with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) and visual blurring. In Aug/2013, she developed 
chronic cough and shortness of breath. Oesophageal PH and manometry were normal. On 19/Sep/2013, during 
telephone conversation, she reported that she had diminished vision over the last two to three months. She 
developed difficulty with vision and memory and coordination after rituximab infusion. She had been taking this for 4
years. Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan was requested. It was reported that brain MRI was 
performed but brain biopsy and john cunningham (JC) virus in cerebro spinal fluid (CSF) were not performed. In 
Sep/2013, rituximab was stopped. On 30/Sep/2013, MRI Showed white matter disease with possible posterior 
reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES). Lumbar puncture and JC virus negative. Human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) test negative and other viral titres negative. This had been assessed and other causes excluded. It was 
concluded that it was due to rituximab. On 03/Dec/2013, MRI scan showed slight progression. MRI time of flight 
images through carotid and vertebral arteries were normal. On 23/Jan/2014, she consulted a neuro radiologist 
where she diagnosed some sort of leukoencephalopathy which caused uncertain. In Feb/2014, her vision was 
deteriorating. In Apr/2014, neurology concluded that these MRI changes were more likely due to rituximab induced 
progressive multi focal leukoencephalopathy with differentials of lymphoma and cerebral vasculitis. Brain biopsy 
always a possibility for the future if she deteriorated. Interval brain imaging and periodic assessment of visual 
function were recommended. On 04/Apr/2014, MRI head with contrast performed. On an unspecified date in 2014, 
she was seen by ophthalmologist where he diagnosed with homonymous hemianopia. In Jun/2015, her stable MRI 
scan was changed but still subtle cognitive deficits such as can't drive in the dark, easily confused, lost verbal 
fluency, neurologically intact. Rheumatoid in remission on no treatment. She developed an additional event such as
leucodystrophy and hospitalised. On nine months, white matter disease had been minor improvement clinically. It 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 140 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
was reported that leucodystrophy was not occurred as a result of a mistake made in the prescription, dosing, 
dispensing or administration of the medication. She had not taken any other medication in the last 3 months 
(including prescription, over the counter or herbal medicines).
At the time of this report, the leucodystrophy was persisting, the outcome of event progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy, cough, visual blurring, shortness of breath and cognitive deficits and the therapy status of 
rituximab was not reported .
The rheumatologist did not provide the causality of events progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, white 
matter disease, leucodystrophy, cough, visual blurring, shortness of breath and cognitive deficits with rituximab.
The company considered events progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and white matter disease as 
medically significant.
Further information has been requested.
Additional information was received on 30/Jun/2015. Following information was added to the case: Height and 
weight of the patient, additional source identification number (GBMHRAEYC00113539), Medical history, 
concomitant medications, past drugs, therapy details of suspect rituximab, additional new events ( white matter 
disease, leucodystrophy, cough, visual blurring, shortness of breath and cognitive deficits), relevant diagnostic data 
and lab details.