This spontaneous report was received from a consumers daughter via a specialty pharmacy ((b) (6) ) on 
13AUG2014.
An 88-year-old male patient initiated the use of oral Jakafi (ruxolitinib) 5 mg tablet twice daily (BID) on 27SEP2013 
for myelofibrosis. Lot number and expiration date were unknown. Upon follow-up, the physician reported that the 
patient initiated Jakafi on 01JUN2013. Lot number and expiration date were not reported.
Medical history included: anemia, congestive heart failure (CHF), arthritis, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension 
(HTN), pulmonary hypertension, degenerative disease of the lumbar spine and cholecystectomy.  Concomitant 
medications included Aranesp (darbepoetin alfa), Lasix (furosemide), Lipitor (atorvastatin) and prednisone.  Upon 
follow up additional concomitant medications included Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid), ferrous sulfate, multivitamin, 
potassium chloride and terazosin.  The patient had been receiving prednisone 5 mg daily for an extended period of 
time (exact duration unknown).
It was reported that the patient passed away on an unspecified date in 2014 after being admitted to the hospital.
Upon follow-up from the physician, the patient had rapid, progressive neurologic decline that began around the 
beginning of (b) (6)   Prior to these events, the patient was able to walk independently and had been active.  
Over about 3 or 4 weeks, the patient had experienced gradually increasing generalized weakness, to the point he 
was unable to walk independently and had been falling a lot. During this time he was hospitalized briefly, no focal 
deficits were found, and he was discharged to home.  A non-contrast brain MRI on (b) (6)  showed severe 
chronic ischemic change in the cerebral white matter and deep cerebral gray matter suggesting microvascular 
disease, and no acute abnormalities were noted.
He was hospitalized again on (b) (6)  due to weakness and falling, and at that time he also complained about 
severe back pain, weakness, numbness and tingling in both upper extremities, not being able to hold onto things, 
and not being able to sleep. On (b) (6)  a CT scan of the head did not show any evidence of acute bleed or 
abnormalities, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain without contrast showed no acute intracranial 
abnormality, generalized volume loss with severe changes of chronic small vessel ischemic disease, evidence of 
an old right caudate head lacunar infarct, and hemosiderin deposition in the left frontal lobe suggestive of a remote 
history of small hemorrhage. The patient was evaluated by a neurologist, and the physical exam on (b) (6)
was notable for the patient being alert and oriented x 3; there was mild dysmetria on finger-to-nose without pronator
drift; motor examination showed mild weakness that was greater proximally than distally in the upper and lower 
extremities; sensory exam was intact to touch and pain, though inconsistent; and reflexes were 1+ upper 
extremities, 0 at the knee, 0 at the ankles, and toes were down-going bilaterally. Laboratory results on (b) (6)
included serum aldolase 14.7 U/L (normal less than 7.7).  On (b) (6) , a lumbar puncture (LP) showed clear, 
colorless CSF with 91 RBC/mcL (normal 0-1); 13 WBC/mcL (normal 0-5) with 13% segmented cells, 8% bands, 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 208 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
45% lymphs, 34% monos, and no blasts;  protein 103 mg/dL (normal 15-45); and glucose 74 mg/dL (normal 40-70).
CSF culture showed no growth of bacteria or fungi. The neurologists impression was that the patients symptoms 
had a peripheral etiology, most likely either Guillain-Barre syndrome or steroid-induced myopathy.  The patient was 
treated with three doses of IVIG for presumed Guillain-Barre syndrome, his neurological symptoms continued, and 
he was discharged on (b) (6)  to a skilled nursing facility for occupational and physical therapy.  He was 
readmitted on (b) (6)  for possible pneumonia, but there was no evidence on chest x-ray or physical 
examination. Laboratory results revealed WBC 12.8, hemoglobin (HGB) 10.3, platelet (PLT) 101, BUN 18 and 
creatinine 0.83 (Units and normal ranges not provided). During these hospitalizations, the patient had also been 
noted to have chronic but stable hyponatremia and leukocytosis.
The oncologist reviewed the earlier MRI from (b) (6)  and thought that it showed diffuse contrast enhancement 
and diffuse signal abnormalities concerning for progressive multi-focal leukoencephalopathy (PML).  Due to his 
concern about the possibility of developing PML, Jakafi was discontinued on 11AUG2014 and steroids were 
continued.  The patient decided against further invasive testing for a diagnosis, and elected to go home that day on 
hospice care. Discharge medications included prior medications and the addition of morphine, Percocet 
(oxycodone hydrochloride and acetaminophen) and Ativan (lorazepam).  On (b) (6)  the patient died.
A central review of the MRIs performed on (b) (6) and (b) (6) was performed to rule out PML. The report 
noted that features of PML are typically hyperintense in T2 and hypointense in T1 weighted sequences, lesions 
destroy U fibers, have no sharp edges and are not symmetrically located. They are rarely very prominent in the 
temporal regions. Therefore, as the appearance of the lesions is not at all typical for PML, it was his opinion that 
there were no signs for PML. Other findings included: many widespread, partly confluent, partly single lesions due 
to microvascular changes of possibly longstanding blood hypertension; intracerebral lesions of myelofibrosis are in 
addition very rare and are hypointense and hyperintense in T1/T2. They are only intracranial/extracerebral located; 
lacunar infarct caudate nucleus right; single micro-bleed (unspecific); no signs of an acute infiltrating process.
Consent for a post mortem brain biopsy was obtained, but due to logistical problems was not performed.  The 
physician could not confirm the relatedness of Jakafi to the reported events. 
Follow-up was received on 03SEP2014 from the physician. The patients age, Jakafi therapy dates, concomitant 
medications and event details were updated. The events of rapid, progressive neurologic decline and elevated 
protein were added.
Follow up was received on 11SEP2014 from the physician. Medical records containing three admissions, laboratory
results, medical history, additional concomitant medication and treatments were provided and narrative was 
updated.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 209 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Follow up was received on 03MAR2015 from a radiologist (central reader). A second opinion and interpretation of 
the brain MRIs performed on (b) (6)  and (b) (6)  were provided and the narrative was updated.
Serious spontaneous report of passed away [death], suspected Guillain-Barre syndrome [hospitalization, important 
medical event], severe low back pain, possible steroid induced myopathy, possible progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy versus demyelinating syndrome, assessed as unlisted in the USPI.
The remaining reported events were considered nonserious by the Incyte Medical Safety Physician. .
The information provided in this individual case does not warrant a change to the Core Data Sheet. The topic will be
monitored closely. All spontaneous reports are considered suspected for reporting purposes or in accordance with 
regulatory reporting requirements.
Incyte comment (12SEP2014):  Although a possible diagnosis of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(PML) was considered shortly before the death of the patient, the formal interpretations by the radiologist of the CT 
and MRI scans on (b) (6)  described no acute processes or findings suggestive of PML.