This solicited report was initially received from a consumer (patient) in the United States on 24-Jun-2014. Additional
information was received from the consumer (patient) on 18-Jul-2014. Follow-up information was received from the 
patient on 31-Jul-2014. Based on information received upon follow-up, this case was upgraded as serious. A 
female patient, 50 years of age at the time of this report, with multiple sclerosis (MS) experienced bouts of 
confusion, MS symptoms with trouble speaking, trouble walking, and walking slower, memory problems due to her 
MS, increasing JC (John Cunningham) virus numbers, stuttering, and Alzheimer's (medically significant) while on 
Ampyra, Tysabri, and Tecfidera.
The patient's past medical history included MS. Family medical history was not provided. Concomitant medication 
included Gilenya (dosing information, start date and indication not reported).
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on an unspecified date (reported as having been on Ampyra for years) 10 mg, 
(unspecified route) twice daily for MS. Tysabri (Natalizumab), considered a co-suspect medication, was started on 
an unspecified date (reported as having been on Tysabri for 8 years), dosing regimen unknown, route not provided,
for an unknown indication. Tecfidera (dimethyl fumarate), considered a co-suspect medication, was started on an 
unspecified date, dosing regimen unknown, route not provided, for an unknown indication. 
The patient stated that she sometimes has "bouts of confusion". At follow-up, she stated she has been 
experiencing MS symptom problems, trouble speaking, trouble walking and walking slower. She stated the 
symptoms began about a month prior to the report. Additionally, she stated she has had to discontinue Tysabri 
(unknown date) for increasing JC virus numbers. She further stated she has been out of Ampyra for 3 days and 
Gilenya for 3 days. Patient stated she will be starting Tecfidera today or tomorrow and will be receiving her Ampyra 
to restart in the next few days.  Further information was not provided. Upon follow-up received on 31-Jul-2014, the 
patient reported that she recntly developed stuttering while talking, but she thought it was due to the new 
medication she started, Tecfidera (reported as Texadera). She stated that she sometimes has memory problems 
due to her MS, and that she was taking two medications for Alzheimer's. No additional information was provided. 
The outcome of the events was unknown. 
Action taken with Ampyra due to events was unknown (upon follow-up on 18-Jul-2014, the patient had been out of 
Ampyra). Action taken with Tysabri was withdrawn due to increasing JC virus numbers. Action taken with Tecfidera 
was unknown.
The consumer (patient) did not provide a causality statement.
Follow-up received from the patient on 18-Jul-2014 included additional events, co-suspect and concomitant 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 184 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
medications and additional events (MS Symptoms, JC virus numbers). This information has been incorporated into 
the narrative.
Follow-up information received from the patient on 31-Jul-2014 included: co-suspect medication was added 
(Tecfidera), new event (stuttering, Alzheimer's) were reported. This information has been incorporated into the 
narrative. Based on information received upon follow-up, this case was upgraded as serious.