Report No 1 received from US Consumer Relations, Date 05-AUG-2014, Reference No: R057331010
Suspect drug: Children's Mucinex Multi-Symptom Cold Very Berry (Guaifenesin; Dextromethorphan hydrobromide; 
Phenylephrine hydrochloride)
Dosing: 10ml every 4 hours
Co suspect drug: Amoxicillin
Dosing: Unknown
Case reference number US-RB-067833-14 is a spontaneous case report sent by a consumer or other non health 
professional which refers to a female aged 10 years.
Reporter (Mother) reported that her 10 year old daughter began taking Children's Mucinex Multi-Symptom Cold 
Very Berry because she was stuffy and her throat was hurting. Patient was taking Claritin and that was not helping. 
On 04-AUG-2014, the patient s Health Care Professional advised to take Children's Mucinex Multi-Symptom Cold 
Very Berry to help manage her symptoms. The Health Care Professional said that it could just be the mucus 
dripping into her lungs and irritating it. She did not have strep throat even though it was red and swollen. Patient 
was also taking Amoxicillin. Patient experienced a bloody nose around 8:00am on 04-AUG-2014 and stopped after 
pressure was applied - it lasted a few minutes. Patient woke up this morning, 05-AUG-2014, and took a shower. 
While in the shower, her nose began to bleed again. It was a consistent flow of blood that lasted about 15-20 
minutes before it finally stopped. She said that patient does get bloody noses every once in a while but not like as 
severe as the one this morning. Reporter thought that it was effecting her judgment as she came downstairs in 
pants, a sweatshirt and Uggs. 
Medical History: bloody noses, throat red, throat swollen, mucus dripping into lungs and lungs irritation.
Drug History: Claritin
The reaction was deemed serious by the company because it was classed as medically significant due to  bloody 
nose .
The reporter's causality for the case is Possible. The reporting consumer or other non health professional's clinical 
assessment for drug MUCINEX CHILD COLD VERY BERRY LIQUID[Guaifenesin; Dextromethorphan 
hydrobromide; Phenylephrine hydrochloride] is as follows: seriousness not provided with a relatedness of Possible.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 40 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The company's assessment for the case is serious, possible and unlisted.
No further information was available at the time of report.
Outcome: Recovered / Resolved.
Reporter Assessment Narrative: The reporter's causality for the case is Possible. The reporting consumer or other 
non health professional's clinical assessment for drug MUCINEX CHILD COLD VERY BERRY 
LIQUID[Guaifenesin; Dextromethorphan hydrobromide; Phenylephrine hydrochloride] is as follows: seriousness not
provided with a relatedness of Possible.
01-MAR-2016 : Case downgrade from serious to non serious during ongoing benefit risk assessment, cases was 
reviewed and re-evaluated by the internal  consumer safety review panel as non serious 01 03 2016