Medically significant
A medical doctor reported that an adult  male patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple Sclerosis from 27 
Mar 2007 to 19 May 2014 and enrolled in a Biogen Idec sponsored marketing program of Monitored Therapy
experienced MS exacerbation characterized by increased paresthesia in upper extremities (onset unknown). 
Treatment information was not provided. The outcome for the event is unknown. Causality was not assessed. 
TYSABRI therapy was discontinued due to unknown reason.
Addendum: Initial report was received via a TOUCH Discontinuation form from the prescribing neurologist in which 
it was reported that PML was under investigation. Outbound phone calls to the prescribing neurologist's office were 
made on 16 Jul 2014 and 17 Jul 2014 for additional information and a RN clarified on behalf of the physician that 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 234 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
the patient had been worked up for PML, however, PML had been ruled out based on negative results from CSF 
JCV PCR testing (lumbar puncture (LP) performed 24 Jun 2014; testing at (b) (6)  laboratories). The RN stated
that the patient had an increase in paresthesia in upper extremities, and subsequent MRI was performed on 10 Jun
2014 with results described as, "OK; negative for abnormal findings". The RN further stated that the LP was 
performed as ?screening-only? due to the patient?s increased risk for PML based on having had 92 doses [of 
TYSABRI]. PML was ruled out and the final diagnosis of MS exacerbation was provided. The RN added that the 
patient was never hospitalized for this event, and that the patient would be discontinuing TYSABRI and starting 
Aubagio [for MS therapy].
Update 06 Aug 2014: A physician spontaneously reported that his male patient experienced PML (onset Aug 2014; 
previously reported as MS exacerbation characterized by increase in paresthesia in upper extremities). The 
patient's spinal fluid was negative [for JCV DNA] but the suspicion was based on an usual lesion on MRI. At the 
time of this report, the TOUCH dosing database indicated that the patient had received a total of 92 doses of 
TYSABRI infusions from 27 Mar 2007 to 19 May 2014. Additional information found via the TOUCH program 
incuded the following: the patient's MS was diagnosed in 1991 and prior MS therapy included Novatrone. Outcome 
was reported as not recovered. Causality was reported as related to TYSABRI. No further information was 
provided.
Update 12 Aug 2014: In response to an outbound phone call to the prescribing neurolgist's office for additional 
information, a RN reported that a [follow-up] MRI on 28 Jul 2014 showed progression of lesion which prompted the 
suspicion for PML. The patient had no immunosuppressant history and had tested positive for anti JCV antibodies 
on Mar 2012. The RN reported that currently, the patient was asymptomatic with the exception of being a little more
fatigued than usual. No treatment had been administered for this event, and the patient was currently under [MD] 
surveillance. A follow-up MRI is scheduled for 22 Aug 2014, and depending on the MRI findings, a second lumbar 
puncture [for CSF JCV DNA testing] would be considered as well as other treatment options. A follow-up visit with 
the neurologist is scheduled for 26 Aug 2014. No further information was provided.
Update 12 Aug 2014: In response to a request for additional information, MRI reports were received. MRI on 03 
Feb 2014 w/out Gd: (compared to 20 Jun 2013): Again seen multiple oblong fo of T2 hyperintensity in the 
pericallosal, periventricular, and deep WM of both cerebral hemispheres w/a perpendicular orientation to the 
ventricular surface. A couple of sm. Callosal septal lesions are present along the posterior body and splenium of 
the corpus callosum. Mild diffuse callosal atropy. Sm T2 hyperintense lesions in left pons, at the right 
pontomedullary jx and in both middle cerebellar peduncles. Unchanged in size, number, appearance or distribution 
and compatible with MS. Impression: stable changes of MS. MRI 10 Jun 2014 w/Gd: (compared to MRI on 04 Jun 
2014): No areas of abnormal parenchymal or leptomeningeal enhancement; no enhancement of lesions described 
on 04 Jun 2014 to suggest active demyelination. No enhancement of subcortical lesion involving the posterior left 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 235 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
temporal lobe inferior temporal gyrus. Could represent either a subcortical demyelinating plaque or focal region of 
involvement of PML (considered less likely, as this entity is multifocal, hence the name). Impression: No abnormal 
enhancement. MRI 28 Jul 2014 w/Gd: (compared to MRI on 04 Jun 2014 and MRI on 10 Jun 2014): Again seen is 
a region of predominantly subcortical involvement w/some deep WM involvement of the posterior L temporal lobe 
of nonenhancing T2 signal abnormality w/out mass effect. This region of signal abnormality measures 2.3 cm 
transverse x 3.6 cm anteroposterior x 2.4 cm superoinferior, previously 1.8 x 2.3 x 1.4 cm. T1 hypointensity has 
developed w/in the central aspect of this region of signal abnormality, most pronounced along the posterior aspect 
of the inferior tempora gyrus subcortical WM.  No change in multiple additional elongated foci of nonenhancing T2 
signal abnormality in the pericallosal and periventricular WM of both cerebral hemispheres as well as in the 
peritrigonal WM of the R parietal lobe w/a perpendicular orientation to the ventricular surface. There are also 
multiple callosal septal lesions present, most prominent in the anterior body of the corpus callosum, the largest of 
the lesions are T1 hypointense, compatible w/frank axonal destruction, typical of advanced changes of 
demyelination in setting of MS.  Impression: A region of nonenhancing juxtacortical signal abnormality in the 
posterior L temporal lobe has increased in size since 04 Jun 2014. The absence of contrast enhancement or mass 
effect is suspicious for solitary PML. A progressing demyelinating plaque would be expected to have some 
enhancement, but is not excluded. Otherwise, no change in advanced sequela of MS. No further information was 
received.
Update 15 Aug 2014: Additional information was provided in MRI report and laboratory report. The patient tested 
negative for CSF JCV (sample collected on 20 Jun 2014; testing performed at (b) (6) ). A brain MRI on 04 Jun 
2014 without contrast showed scattered nonspecific area of abnormal T2 signal hyperintensity in the white matter of
both cerebral hemispheres, brainstem, upper cervical cord and cerebellar hemispheres, brainstem, upper cervical 
cord and cerebellar hemispheres as noted on MRI dated 03 Feb 2014. Again, the distribution and appearance of 
these lesions suggests advanced chronic sequelae of a demyelinating process such as multiple sclerosis. Interval 
appearance of a 2.3 cm area of T2 signal hyperintensity in the subcortical posterior left temporal lobe nonspecific 
for a new MS plaque versus PML versus other pathology. The lack of cortical involvement argues against ischemic 
change. A repeat MRI with gadolinium was recommended in further evaluation.
Update 19 Aug 2014: The prescribing neurologist reported via a program of Monitored Therapy that this 
"suspected" case was now "confirmed" PML based on clinical and radiographic data. The patient was currently 
under the treatment for IRIS as TYSABRI had worn off and enhancement was seen in suspicious brain lesion with 
some increase in symptoms.
Update 09 Sep 2014: Upon follow-up, the prescribing neurologist reported the patient was scheduled for a visit in 2 
weeks with an updated status and MRI. No further information was provided.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 236 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 26 Sep 2014: Upon follow-up, the neurologist provided additional information. The patient's symptoms 
included difficulty performing mathematics and multitasking with some word finding. The symptoms were new and 
appeared to worsen over time. After the development of [JC] virus and treatment with steroids, he would have 
improvement in the symptoms but a steroid was withdrawn, some of the symptoms would come back with 
increasing enhancement in lesions.  The patient was independent although he did have pre-existing residual 
deficits from his multiple sclerosis. Prior to his last visit, he was re-started on IV Solu-Medrol (methylprednisolone) 
based on the findings on his most recent brain MRI approximately dated 16 Sep 2014 (report not provided).  At the 
time of this report, the patient was on a tapering regimen of oral and his next visit was scheduled around 07 Oct 
2014. Treatment included IV Solu-Medrol (methylprednisolone) and oral dexamethasone for IRIS and no treatment 
for PML except discontinuation of TYSABRI. The patient did not have 2nd CSF JCV DNA test (or brain biopsy) 
performed to confirm JC virus/PML. 
Update 02 Oct 2014: Additional information was provided by the neurologist's office including brain MRI reports (all 
performed without contrast) and clinic visit progress notes. MRI on 16 Aug 2014 indicated, since MRI on 28 Jul 
2014, continued progression area of T2 signal hyperintensity involving the subcortical posterior left temporal lobe 
now measuring 4 cm in maximum dimension with new faint enhancement along its medial aspect; little, if any, 
associated mass effect; while the associated enhancement was unusual, the progression and location of this lesion
was again most suggestive of PML; an enhancing MS plaque or neoplasm is less likely; new mild gadolinium 
enhancement, best seen on the sagittal images, was also associated with a mildly progressive area of T2 signal 
hyperintensity involving the cortical/subcortical orbital aspect of the anterior left frontal lobe; intracranial contents 
were otherwise unchanged; stable chronic advanced, sequelae of MS. MRI on 22 Aug 2014 indicated, since the 
previous MRI on 16 Aug 2014, consolidation of the enhancement along the medial and anterosuperior margins of 
the poorly circumscribed.area  of T2 signal abnormality with predominantly subcortical involvement with some deep 
white matter involvement of the posterior left temporal lobe; the lesion was unchanged in size, measuring 2.6 cm 
transverse x 3.8 cm anteroposterior x 3.1 cm superoinferior; some interval progression of T2 signal abnormality 
was present within the anteromedial aspect of the lesion corresponding to the area of consolidating enhancement 
and an expected appearance of an immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) to PML related to therapy 
with and subsequent cessation of natalizumab; IMPRESSION: PML-IRIS in the left temporal lobe secondary to 
natalizumab; probable PML-IRIS involving a small region of the inferior aspect of the anterior left frontal lobe; stable
advanced sequelae of multiple sclerosis. Per progress notes for a follow-up clinic visit on 26 Aug 2014, the 
neurologist's impression was that the patient's MS was stable and the brain lesion compatible with PML also 
remained stable since the previous MRI; there was still ongoing mild inflammation; as previously reported a brief 
course of oral steroids with dexamethasone 4 mg PO QID for 3 days was recommended. MRI on 16 Sep 2014 
indicated significant progression of PML-IRIS in the left temporal lobe secondary to natalizumab with increase in 
size of T2 signal abnormality to 4.5 cm transverse x 6.9 cm anteroposterior x 4.6 cm superoinferior; significant 
progression of PML-IRIS involving the inferior aspect of the anterior left frontal lobe; and interval progression of 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 237 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
PML-IRIS in both frontal lobes, with multiple new punctate foci of enhancement and T2 signal abnormality. 
Progress notes for a follow-up clinic visit on 23 Sep 2014 indicated that on 17 Sep 2014, treatment with IV Solu-
Medrol 1g TID x 3 days consecutively was initiated followed by a Medrol Dosepak (methylprednisolone oral) due to 
the increased lesion size shown on the 16 Sep 2014 MRI. Prior to the patient finishing the Medrol Dosepak, 
treatment was switched to dexamethasone 4 mg PO BID x 2 weeks. The patient's clinical situation had improved 
and the patient felt he was almost back to his usual baseline. MRI on 01 Oct 2014 indicated prominent ill-defined 
areas of presumed PML involving the left anterior frontal and mid/posterior left temporal lobes as noted on MRI on 
16 Sep 2014; interval progression of the left anterior frontal lesion with some associated gadolinium enhancement; 
the left temporal lesion was unchanged in size exhibiting persistent peripheral gadolinium enhancement with 
interval development of peripheral pregadolinium Tl signal hyperintensity suggesting blood product.
Update 30 Oct 2014: The prescribing neurolgist provided MRI scans from 04 Jun 2014, 10 Jun 2014, 28 Jul 2014, 
16 Aug 2014, 22 Aug 2014, 16 Sep 2014, and 01 Oct 2014. No further case information received.