This 77 year old Caucasian male patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) was enrolled in (b) (6)
 He had previously been enrolled in September 2012 in companion stud (b) (6)
and
commenced treatment in the current study with oral blinded (to dose) idelalisib on 15 January 2014.
Concomitant medications included Crestor (rosuvastatin calcium), fenofibrate, Vitamin D, Symbicort (budesonide, 
formoterol fumarate), Singulair (montelukast sodium), escitalopram, Spiriva (tiotropium bromide), famotidine, 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 216 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Prilosec (omeprazole), Iron, Gas X (simeticone), and monthly IVIG (immunoglobulin human normal).  Medical 
history included chronic headaches, chronic neuropathy and paresthesias, hypercholesterolemia, chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease, anxiety, esophageal ulcerations and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), iron 
deficiency, abdominal pain, respiratory infections, bronchitis, hypogammaglobulinemia, and a hiatal hernia with 
surgical repair in January 2008. The patient had a prior heavy smoking history, and a drug allergy to levofloxacin.
CLL was diagnosed in 1998 as stage II.  CLL therapy included: rituximab and fludarabine, completed in January 
2007; rituximab and bendamustine completed on 30 June 2010; and rituximab, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and 
prednisone (R-CVP) initiated on 08 March 2012. The last dose of rituximab was administered on study GS-US-312-
0116 on 15 January 2013.
Since March 2014, the patient has had worsening balance and unsteady gait.
On 13 May 2014, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain was negative for disease (report not provided).
Since June 2014, the patient has also had worsening severe headaches and slurring of speech. 
During clinic visits in June 2014 and July 2014, the patient reported feeling unbalanced and was having difficulty 
walking.
On 16 July 2014, the patient underwent a lumbar puncture (LP) as an outpatient. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) results 
included: total nucleated cells (TNC) 8, red blood cells (RBC) 4, glucose (G) 63, protein (P) 68 (units and reference 
range not provided). Flow cytometry revealed:  suspicious minute abnormal B-cell population identified; a 
suspicious minute abnormal mature B-cell population with abnormal expression of CD5, CD20 (absent), lambda 
light chain restricted, and normal expression of CD45, CD19, and CD38; and without CD10. Cytology revealed 
atypical small lymphocytes. Diagnostic molecular pathology revealed: failure of immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) 
was likely related to paucity of B cells in the submitted sample; the clonal rearrangement of T-cell receptor (TCR) 
gamma was of low signal intensity and seen in a polyclonal background.  Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain 
demonstrated asymmetric atrophy of the left hemi-cerebellum (report not provided).
On (b) (6)  the patient was admitted to the neurology service for further evaluation after presenting with 
intractable headaches, nausea, and dizziness with changes in position resulting in multiple falls due to worsening 
gait stability. The patient also had worsening dysarthria. Based on the outpatient LP and MRI brain results, the 
inpatient work-up was based on working diagnoses of central nervous system (CNS) involvement of CLL vs. 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), in particular John Cunningham (JC) virus granule cell 
neuropathy vs. medication side effect.  Laboratory test results were within normal limits, except glucose 103, white 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 217 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
blood cell count (WBC) 34.3, platelet count 104, neutrophils 10.2%, and lymphocytes 83.9% (Units and reference 
range were not provided).  Treatment included intravenous hydration and acyclovir.
On (b) (6)  an LP was performed. CSF results included: opening pressure (OP) 15, TNC 3 (lymphocytes 
99%), RBC 4, G 88, P 79. Flow cytometry revealed: suspicious minute abnormal mature B-cells population with 
abnormal expression of CD5, CD20 (absent), lambda light chain restriction, and normal expression of CD45, CD19,
and CD38; and without CD10; the immunophenotype was similar to previous report; and the abnormal B-cell 
population represented 2.8% (9 events) of the total white cells. Cytology revealed atypical small lymphocytes.  An 
echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction of 68%.
On (b) (6)  chest radiograph (CXR) revealed no acute cardiopulmonary process. During the night, the 
patient was febrile with several episodes of watery diarrhea.  Pan-cultures were obtained and Tylenol (paracetamol)
and Imodium (loperamide hydrochloride) were administered.  Laboratory test results included thrombocytopenia 
(value not provided).
On (b) (6)  MRI brain with and without spectroscopy revealed: stable asymmetric atrophy of the left 
cerebellum, unchanged relative to MRI from 13 May 2014, but new from 10 September 2013; with relatively 
confluent areas of increased T2 fluid attenuation inversion recovery (FLAIR) signal throughout the left cerebellum 
and left brachium pontis, stable from (b) (6)  but new from 13 May 2014; no superimposed enhancement in 
these sites. MRI spectroscopy demonstrated a mild increase in the choline to creatine ratio without significant 
suppression of  N-acetylaspartate (NAA) in the region of the high FLAIR signal in the right brachium pontis with 
spectroscopy findings nonspecific. According to the radiologist, the constellation of MRI findings was most 
suggestive of paraneoplastic syndrome. 
On the same day, JC Virus quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of the CSF was reported as positive at 
1800 DNA copies/mL, with a test comment of abnormally high. The findings were considered consistent with PML 
but, according to the discharge summary, PML treatment was not indicated as the patient was noted to have 
recurrence of CLL.
On (b) (6)  computed tomography (CT) scan of chest, abdomen, and pelvis when compared with a 
previous scan of 04 February 2013, revealed: increased thoracic and abdominopelvic lymphadenopathy as well as 
hepatosplenomegaly; new inferior splenic subcapsular fluid collection, probably a small subcapsular hematoma; 
and new small volume abdominopelvic ascites.  Brain positron emission tomography (PET) scan revealed 
concordant findings to MRI with no evidence of malignancy (report not provided). Serum paraneoplastic panel was 
pending.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 218 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
According to the attending team, from (b) (6)  through (b) (6)  blood counts had decreased: white
blood cell (WBC) from 14.3 to 11.8, hemoglobin from 14 to 9.7, and platelets from 65 to 12.5. Heparin-induced 
thrombocytopenia (HIT) panel was negative. Fibrinogen was normal (value not provided). Lactate dehydrogenase 
(LDH) was 523. [units and reference ranges not provided].
On (b) (6)  the in-hospital leukemia consultant recommended deferring CLL treatment in favor of 
managing the newly diagnosed PML.  Remeron (mirtazapine) was given for insomnia and anxiety. Oxycodone was 
given for pain control. Urine culture was positive for E-Coli.
According to the investigator, the patient would discontinue study medication and palliative care had been 
recommended.
On (b) (6)  a pulmonary consultant recommended intravenous azithromycin and Zosyn (piperacillin 
sodium, tazobactam sodium) and inhalation therapy for the patient s worsening cough.
On (b) (6)  the patient was agitated at night.  Treatment with Remeron was discontinued and Ativan 
(lorazepam) was initiated.  Urine culture was positive for Escherichia coli. 
On (b) (6)  to the patient developed labored breathing, and supplemental oxygen via nasal cannula was 
started to maintain oxygen saturation.  The patient was also started on a morphine pump.  The patient's condition 
continued to deteriorate and the patient became nonresponsive.
On (b) (6)  the patient died.  No autopsy was performed.  According to the investigator, the cause of death
was disease progression from untreated CLL; the patient deteriorated very rapidly after treatment with idelalisib was
interrupted due to the event.
The outcome for the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was reported as fatal.
As a result of the event, action taken with blinded study drug (to dose) was interrupted, and the last dose was 
administered on 31 July 2014.
The investigator assessed the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as serious (hospitalization) and related 
to blinded study drug and not related any study procedure. The investigator provided possible alternative etiologies 
for the event as CLL and rituximab.
The initial report was received on 01 August 2014.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 219 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Follow up information was received on 08 August 2014, 11 August 2014, and on 13 August 2014: This case was 
upgraded, as the investigator updated the previously reported term from 'cognitive disturbance' to 'progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy' and was assessed by the investigator as related to idelalisib. LP, MRI, and CT 
results were reported from the investigator. Additional medical history, past treatment for CLL hospitalization details
were reported. This information was incorporated into the case.
Follow up information was received on 30 September 2014: On an unspecified date the patient died. No further 
death information was reported. This information was incorporated into the case.
Follow up information was received on 03 October 2014: Date of death was reported as well as no autopsy was 
performed and cause of death (disease progression) The alternative causality was changed to pre-existing 
condition (CLL) and Other: patient was on Rituximab until 15 January 2013. Laboratory tests, diagnostic test, 
hospitalization details, and treatment details were reported. This information was incorporated into the case.