Case number# PHEH2014US015931, is a combined initial spontaneous report from a consumer (patient) received 
on 08 Aug 2014 with a follow up report received from the consumer on 13 Jan 2015, with the follow up report 
received from a consumer (patient) via patient oriented program ((b) (6)
) on 11 Feb 2015: This report refers to a 58 year old female patient. Concurrent conditions included 
pancreas transplant (in 2006) and hypertension. This polymedicated patient received Myfortic (mycophenolic acid) 
tablet 180 mg (batch number: F0166, expiry date: 30 Nov 2016), for an unspecified indication from 31 Jul 2006 at a 
dose of 2 DF QID. In 2008, the patient developed food intolerance problems/ she could now only eat certain foods 
otherwise she reacted to them (food intolerance), thyroid cancer, squamous cell cancer (squamous cell carcinoma) 
and lost gallbladder (gallbladder disorder NOS). Treatment with Myfortic was discontinued on an unspecified date. 
The patient also received mycophenolic acid (manufacture unknown) and experienced events sick (malaise), 
terrible neurological disorder (nervous system disorder), caused jaw clenching (joint stiffness), breathing problems 
(dyspnoea), intermittent cramping (muscle spasms), felt like she was on speed (abnormal behaviour) and relaxing 
of her muscles (hypotonia) (see case: PHEH2015US003624). The patient received Myfortic for an unspecified 
indication from an unknown date at a dose of 360 mg. On an unknown date, the patient developed allergies to pork 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 225 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(food allergy). The patient could not even eat lettuce or tomato, everything in mouth becomes inflamed (stomatitis). 
No spices, ketchup, mayo, mustard, nothing. It started before gallbladder out. On an unknown date, the patient 
blood pressure would shoot real high (hypertension) and mouth would become inflamed, and patient went 
emergency room. On an unknown date, the patient experienced face became bright red (erythema), rash on face, 
neck, everything (rash). The patient received Benadryl (diphenhydramine hydrochloride) for an unspecified 
indication from an unknown date at an unspecified dose. On an unknown date, within minutes after taking Benadryl 
patient blood pressure was 192/100 (unit and normal range not provided). The patient felt like she could not breathe
well (dyspnoea) and it could be neuropathy (neuropathy peripheral). Before transplant patient could not feel 
anything from the waist down. The patient felt great and went back to work 02 weeks after her transplant. The 
patient did not have neuropathy before her transplant. The patient felt like that patient had asthma/ had asthma like 
symptoms (asthma), like always had a cold in lungs. On an unknown date, the patient had chest x rays and nothing 
shows up. When the patient breathing thing, the patient experienced decreased lung function (pulmonary function 
test decreased). This did not start until the food intolerance. The patient had reactions to coke and Iced tea. On an 
unknown date, the patient had symptoms of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) (progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy). On an unknown date, the patient had thyroid scan (results not provided). On an 
unknown date, the patient chin gets swollen (swelling face). Some of her ailments (food intolerance) have gotten 
better since her thyroid was out. The patient normally takes Myfortic 180 mg, but messed up prescription (RX) 
(incorrect dose administered) and took 360 mg and none of the side effects (like the food intolerance). The patient 
commented that she could only take can only take Myfortic because she had reactions to the generics (see case: 
PHEH2015US003624). The patient received vitamins (manufacture unknown) for an unspecified indication from an 
unknown date at an unspecified dose. The patient also received Bayer Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) for an 
unspecified indication from an unknown date at an unspecified dose daily. The patient stated that she reacted to 
vitamins and Bayer Aspirin. On (b) (6)  the patient experienced difficulty in eating (aphagia), difficulty in 
breathing and high blood pressure 02 weeks ago and the patient was admitted to the hospital for prolonged period 
for these events. The symptoms were ongoing. The patient had an appointment with physician on the 17 th (not 
specified), as some of the side effects had been ongoing for 4 years. Action taken with the treatment of Myfortic 
was ongoing and with the Bayer Aspirin, Benadryl and vitamins was not reported. The outcome of the events 
(hypertension, dyspnoea, and aphagia) was reported as condition unchanged, for the event food intolerance was 
reported as condition improving and outcome of the other events was unknown. The seriousness of other events 
was not reported. Seriousness assessment of squamous cell carcinoma, progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy and thyroid cancer was upgraded based on the NVS IME list. Seriousness assessment of 
neuropathy peripheral, food intolerance, gallbladder disorder and asthma was upgraded based on the information 
available in the source documents. The causality of events was not reported.
Follow up report received from the consumer on 13 Jan 2015: Updated event verbatim (asthma like symptoms and 
she can now only eat certain foods otherwise she reacted to them) and added the reporters comment.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 226 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Follow up report received from the consumer (patient) via patient oriented program ((b) (6)
) on 11 Feb 2015: Added suspect details (action taken), events (aphagia), seriousness, 
outcome, event onset date (hypertension, dyspnoea, aphagia).