A neurologist reported that a female patient on TYSABRI (unknown dose, IV, unknown frequency) for Multiple 
Sclerosis from 2008 to unknown date was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to an unknown date for PML suspicion 
characterized by speech disorders and confusion (onset unknown). A CSF sample was sent for JCV DNA testing 
and the results are pending. The event of PML suspicion characterized by speech disorders and confusion is 
ongoing. The causality for the event of PML suspicion characterized by speech disorders and confusion is 
unknown.  It is unknown if TYSABRI treatment is ongoing.
Upate 11 Aug 2014: Results for JCV DNA detection test (CSF sample) were inconclusive (CSF samples collected 
in (b) (6)  and tested on (b) (6) ).  The test is to be repeated and results are anticipated.
Update 14 Aug 2014: Repeat JCV DNA detection test was performed on (b) (6)  on CSF aliquot collected in 
(b) (6)   Results were positive with 55 copies.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 240 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 20 Aug 2014: The treating physician reported additional information.  The 60 year old female patient began 
treatment with TYSABRI for MS in 2008. On 12 Sep 2011, JCV antibodies were tested (index unknown).  On 29 
Apr 2014, MRI was compatible to PML.  On 29 May 2014, JCV antibodies retested positive with index of 1.422.  A 
second MRI was performed on (b) (6)  and showed deterioration of the patient's status.  On (b) (6)
JCV DNA PCR was positive with 55 copies (CSF collected in (b) (6) ).  No second lumbar puncture was 
scheduled to be performed. The patient was treated with PLEX (plasma exchange) and SoluMedrol 
(methylprednisolone) 1 gram daily for 5 days followed by tapering with oral treatment with Lariam (mefloquine).
Additional concomitant medication included Remeron (mirtazapine).  The patient's actual clinical status was 
deteriorating with the final diagnosis of the events as PML.
Update 20 Aug 2014: Additional information received included MRI reports.  Brain MRI performed on 05 Mar 2012 
showed foci of abnormal magnetic signal observed at the corpus callosum, deep white matter, at the height of 
semi-oval centers, along both optical radiations, at the hippocampal helix on the right.  The lesions have 
dimensions of few millimeters, are characterized by high intensity magnetic signal in T2 sequences, some of which 
are just marked with weak low magnetic signal intensity in T1 sequences, and after the intravenous administration 
of the paramagnetic substance mild uptake is observed by one of the foci located on the right semi-oval center 
which could be attributed to the presence of demyelination foci in chronic phase, apart form one which is in a sub-
acute phase.  The brain ventricular system and basic cisterns are shown with normal dimensions and morphology.
No abnormal magnetic signal is shown from the study of the shape of the brainstem and cerebellum.  Brain MRI 
performed on (b) (6)  was compared to previous MRI on (b) (6) .  Abnormal spaces were observed on 
the right front region with slightly bigger dimensions on the left frontal lobe, without differentiation compared to the 
previous MRI.  The left temporal region, small focus of about 1 cm diameter without differentiation compared to the 
previous MRI and on the left temporoparietal region, with bigger dimensions in this examination.  The regions were 
characterized by high magnetic signal intensity in the T2 sequences, low magnetic signal intensity in the T1 
sequences and there was no abnormal uptake of the intravenously administered contrast.  No dislocation o the mid 
line elements was observed.  The said foci could be attributed to PML.  No foci with abnormal magnetic signal 
intensity were observed from the study of cerebellum and brain stem shape.  Foci of a few millimeter diameter were
observed in the deep and subcortical part of the white matter around the vertical, along the optical radiation on the 
right, in the upper and lower parietal lobuli in both cerebral hemispheres, the semi-oval center on the left, in the 
corpus callosum.  The foci were characterized by high intensity magnetic signal in T2 sequences, some of which 
were just marked with weak low magnetic signal intensity in T1 sequences, with no uptake of the intravenously 
administered contrast.  The whole picture could be attributed to the presence of focal lesions of chronic phase 
demyelination disease.  Brain ventricles were within normal ranges.  No leptomeningeal or pachymeningeal uptake 
following the intravenously administered contrast.  No further information was provided.
Update 29 Aug 2014: Upon internal review, Biogen Idec considers this case to be confirmed for PML based on the 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 241 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
clinical symptoms, positive CSF, and MRI findings
Update 02 Dec 2014: The treating physician reported that this patient is considered lost to follow-up as she has 
returned to her country of origin.
Update 09 Sep 2015:  The reporting physician stated that the patient has returned to her country of origin and is no 
longer monitored at their hospital.  No additional information is possible to be provided for this case.