AER 1455745 is an interventional clinical study case, received on 27/Aug/2014 from a physician via company 
representative and concerns a 65 year old male patient ((b) (6) ) who experienced progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) while enrolled in(b) (6)
(b) (6)
No medical history, concurrent conditions, concomitant medications or past drugs were reported. Concomitant 
medications of clonazepam, sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim, aciclovir, folic acid, fludarabine phosphate.
It was reported that the patient had CLL since 1998. The patient was included in the study on 23/oct/2012. On 
12/Nov/2012, the patient started intravenous rituximab, 2000 mg, (form and frequency not reported). Later, he had 
suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, but no evidence of viral infection. Nuclear magnetic 
resonance (NMR) of the brain showed deviation in the optical zone (backside of the brain). On 22/Aug/2014, he 
developed grade 3 progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and progressive vision loss and headache. 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 261 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
However, there could be no evidence found of viral infection. Physician was planning a new MR and brain biopsy. 
On 02/Sep/2014, his lumbar puncture showed presence of JC virus. The patient was treated with intravenous 
immunoglobulins, mirtazapine and cidofovir. On an unspecified date, MRI showed an image of encephalopathy in 
the white matter parieto-occipital with alterations left on less right in the thalamus. The PCR result showed 
progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy (PML) by JC virus. Reason: important immunosuppression (as he was 
previously treated with fludarabine and rituximab).
The event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was confirmed by the physician and was persisting. 
At the time of this report, therapy status of rituximab was maintained.
The physician assessed medically significant progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as related to rituximab.
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 01/Sep/2014 and following information was added to the case: Case type 
updated to clinical (previously spontaneous). New reporter (Physician). Suspect drug rituximab indication and route.
Outcome of PML updated to not resolved (previously: not reported), causality of PML with rituximab updated and 
laboratory test lumbar puncture.
Additional information was received on 30/Oct/2014. The following information was added to the case: patient 
details (date of birth, identification  number), rituximab therapy details, concomitant medications of clonazepam, 
sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim, aciclovir, folic acid, fludarabine phosphate, treatment drugs of mirtazapine and 
cidofovir and history of CLL. 
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML