This non-serious spontaneous report from a registered nurse concerns a 73-year-old male patient from the United 
States and was received on 22-AUG-2014.
The patients relevant medical history included chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), no known drug allergies, and an
implanted defibrillator.
The patient received 420 mg of IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib, capsule, oral) daily for the treatment of CLL. The first dose 
of ibrutinib was initiated on an unknown date the first week of JUL-2014. Concomitant medications included 
allopurinol, calcitriol, digoxin, hydralazine hydrochloride, isosorbide, metoprolol, simvastatin, spironolactone, 
Synthroid (levothyroxine sodium), Torsemide (torasemide), and warfarin.
On an unknown date in (b) (6) (b) (6) (  weeks prior to initial report date), after the first dose of ibrutinib, the 
patient experienced an irregular rhythm and racing heartbeat, which triggered a firing of his implanted defibrillator. 
The patient went to the emergency room for evaluation, and while in the emergency room, the defibrillator fired six 
more times. It was unknown if the patient was discharged from the emergency room or stayed in the hospital. 
Treatment with ibrutinib was withdrawn. Treatments provided for the irregular rhythm and racing heartbeat were not
reported. The outcomes of the events were unknown.
Additional information has been requested.
Follow up information was received from a registered nurse on 29-AUG-2014; with the information received in 
follow up, this case was re-assessed as serious. 
Additional relevant medical history included a combination implanted pacemaker/defibrillator device, chronic kidney 
disease (CKD), coronary artery disease (CAD) with ST segment elevation, myocardial infarction (MI), two coronary 
artery bypass grafts (CABG), atrial flutter on amiodarone therapy requiring hospitalization, supraventricular 
tachycardia (SVT), cardiac ablation procedure, and an ejection fraction (EF) of 15%. On an unknown date in FEB-
2014, the patient felt the defibrillator fire, reportedly last time before ibrutinib was initiated; additional details were 
not provided. On unknown dates after the first dose of ibrutinib, the patient experienced three episodes of 
ventricular tachycardia (VT), one episode of ventricular fibrillation, and an unspecified tachycardia which his 
implanted pacemaker/defibrillator attempted to use anti-tachycardia pacing to convert. The tachycardia would not 
convert, and reportedly the patient had no knowledge of the instances of arrhythmia as they were asymptomatic. All
of the instances of arrhythmia were discovered during an interrogation of the patients device (unknown historical 
date range reviewed) performed on an unknown date in (b) (6) . Treatment in the form of device setting 
Print Time: 14-JAN-2016 01:47 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 2 of 13
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
changes was not reported. The outcomes of the VT and ventricular fibrillation were resolved; the outcome of the 
unspecified tachycardia was unknown. In (b) (6) , one week after the device interrogation, the patient was 
admitted to the hospital for his irregular heart rate as evidenced by the symptomatic firing of the defibrillator seven 
times. On (b) (6) , the patient was transferred to a different hospital and placed in the cardiac intensive care 
unit (ICU) for adjustment to his medications and another interrogation of his device. On an unknown date in (b) (6)
(b) (6)
, the patient was discharged from the hospital. The nurse was unable to update the outcome of the irregular 
heart rhythm, it remained unknown. Additional information has been requested.