Medically Significant
A registered nurse spontaneously reported that a female patient on TYSABRI (unknown dosing regimen) for an 
unknown indication from Oct 2009 to unknown date experienced neurologists suspect PML due to diffuse image 
results on MRI (onset unknown) and seizure (onset unknown).  Previous medications included zopiclone for night 
sedation; however the patient stopped for an unknown reason and started taking the concomitant medication 
clomethiazole. The patient missed doses of clomethiazole and experienced a seizure. The nurse stated that an MRI
scan was done yesterday (presume 25 Aug 2014). There was no formal result yet, but there was a diffuse image on
the MRI scan and the neurologists suspect PML. They wish to do a lumbar puncture to obtain CSF and test for viral
DNA. The nurse noted that the patient was not hospitalized. Treatment for the events was not provided. The 
outcome for the events neurologists suspect PML due to diffuse image results on MRI and seizure is unknown. 
Causality for the events is unknown.  It is unknown if TYSABRI treatment is ongoing.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 292 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Preferred Term ( MedDRA  Version: 17.1 ReC
Update 01 Sep 2014: A neurologist spontaneously reported that they had a case of PML and were in the process of
diagnosing the female patient.
Update 02 Sep 2014: Upon follow-up with the neurologist, the neurologist reported via a Biogen Idec Medical Affairs
Associate that the patient's PML could have been starting from back in Feb (presume 2014) as a scan from back 
then had "a hint of PML." Now the MRIs (dates not specified) look very suspicious of PML, so much so that the 
neurologist is considering treatment with PLEX even if the PCR results come back negative, as he is aware that 
false negatives are a possibility. The neurologist stated that he sent a lumbar sample to (b) (6)  for PCR testing 
this morning (presume 02 Sep 2014). The neurologist is admitting the patient (b) (6)  ((b) (6) ). No
further information was provided.
Update 03 Sep 2014: Upon follow-up, a doctor spontaneously reported via a Biogen Idec Medical Science Liaison 
(MSL) that the female patient was referred by the neurologist for a plasma exchange. The doctor reported that in 
Jul 2014 the patient experienced an epileptic fit (presumed reference to previous event seizure). One month ago 
the patient experienced personality changes. The patient has had an MRI (date not specified) which has been 
reviewed by 3 radiologists, 2 of which were neuro-radiologists, and they agree that it looks like suspected PML. The
patient had a lumbar puncture (date unknown), and the results were sent to (b) (6)  yesterday (presume 02 Sep 
Update 03 Sep 2014: A hospital physician spontaneously reported that the female patient on TYSABRI for 5 years 
has likely PML and is undergoing plasma exchange to wash out TYSABRI.  Causality for the event was unknown. 
TYSABRI therapy was discontinued. No further information was provided.
Update 04 Sep 2014: Upon follow-up, the hospital physician spontaneously reported via a Biogen Idec 
representative that the female patient received her last TYSABRI infusion 3 weeks ago last Monday (3.5 weeks 
ago) and has been on TYSABRI for about 5 years. The patient is currently "well in herself", but cognitively impaired.
Update 10 Sep 2014: A physician reported that they are awaiting the PCR results (presume reference to previous 
lumbar puncture; date unknown) to come back and that the patient is awaiting PLEX. The outcome of the event 
suspected PML is unknown. Causality for the event is unknown. No further information was provided.
Update 23 Sep 2014:  This case, received from the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA)
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 293 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(registry number ADR 22682340-002), in the form of an anonymised single patient report (ASPR) did not contain 
any additional information.
Update 26 Sep 2014:  The neurologist provided the following additional information via a Biogen Idec medical 
science liaison.  The patient's CSF was positive for JCV DNA per (b) (6)  (lower limit of detection 50 
copies/ mL) (number of copies pending).  The neurologist stated that the patient's condition was "apparently the 
same".
Update 07 Oct 2014:  This case, received from the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA)
(registry number ADR 22682340-003), in the form of an anonymised single patient report (ASPR) did not contain 
any additional information.
Update 15 Dec 2014: Follow-up information was received from a nurse.  The female patient had a long standing 
history of MS (date of onset of symptoms and diagnosis were unavailable).  Previous MS therapies included 
interferon (NOS).  The patient had no prior immunosuppressant use.  EDSS prior to starting TYSABRI was <4.5.
While on TYSABRI, the patient was stable with no change.  At time of PML suspicion, there was no change, and 
the patient was still walking.  JCV antibody status was positive (date and index unavailable).  The patient started 
TYSABRI 5 years ago in 2009 and ended in Aug 2014.  The total number of infusions received was unavailable.
One to two years prior to PML suspicion, the patient experienced seizures which were believed to be a complication
from medication (NOS).  The patient was scanned (presume MRI) around Jun 2014 due to another seizure.  In Sep
2014, lumbar puncture was performed for JCV testing (CSF JCV DNA) for suspected PML.  The results came back
as positive for PML from (b) (6)  labs but negative from the (b) (6)  lab.  The patient has undergone plasma exchange 
but their immune system has not responded so they want to repeat the test (CSF JCV DNA) to ensure that the 
infection has been cleared out.  Repeat MRI on 20 Dec 2014 showed some progression of PML.  Treatment 
administered was not specified but was noted that the patient did not receive steroids "or anything like that."  The 
outcome and final diagnosis were unavailable.
Update 29 Dec 2014:  This case, received from the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA)
(registry number ADR 22682340-004), in the form of an anonymised single patient report (ASPR) did not contain 
any additional information.
Update 16 Jan 2015: Follow-up information was received from the physician.  The patient's case was noted to be 
"unusual: she has remained very well throughout."  Management consisted of plasma exchange only.  The patient 
was monitored with weekly axial T2 scans which showed some gradual extension of lesions posteriorly and into 
opposite hemisphere.  IRIS was minimal and asymptomatic, therefore, they did not administer steroids.  Additional 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 294 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
MRI images, with Gadolinium, were pending.
Update 25 Feb 2015: Follow-up information received from the neurologist indicating that the patient continues to do 
well and "scan is now improving" (presume MRI).
Update 13 Apr 2015: Follow-up information was received from the physician who saw the patient four weeks ago. 
The physician reported that the patient was intensively monitored and despite radiological concerns, the patient was
doing remarkably well and her symptoms have settled. The patient is due to go back to work. They are considering 
restarting treatment but unsure if this will be Tecfidera.