Case number PHHY2014BE117146, is an initial literature report received on 05 Sep 2014. The author described 
about the three patients who died at the (b) (6)  Hospital illustrate the difficulties of diagnosing immune 
reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) and the problems in managing patients suspected of IRIS. This report 
refers to a 44-year-old HIV seropositive Caucasian man ((b) (6)  who had stopped his ART 4 years earlier was 
hospitalized in(b) (6)  because of a left hemiparesis. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain showed a
right fronto-temporal brain lesion also involving the brain stem. A PCR-test for polyomavirus (JC-virus) on CSF was 
positive. ART was started 15 days later (zidovudine, lamivudine, abacavir, saquinavir and ritonavir) (unknown 
manufacturer and formulation for all drugs) at a CD4 + cell count of 10/uL. One week after the start of ART, he 
developed a submandibular abscess and the brain lesion increased. An aspiration of the abscess revealed acid fast
bacilli. The abscess was drained and the patient was treated with rifampicin, isoniazide, pyrazinamide, ethambutol, 
claritromycine and methylprednisolone (48 mg a day for a month, reduced to 32 mg a day after that, until death). 
Culture of the pus revealed a MAC-infection and no other pathogens. His clinical condition improved, but 6 weeks 
later he was re-hospitalized because of fever, dyspnea, loss of appetite and fatigue. A polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) test on broncho-alveolar lavage fluid was positive for Cytomegalovirus (CMV) but negative for PJP. A repeat 
brain MRI revealed further increase of the brain lesions. He died (b) (6) months after the start of ART due to 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 308 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Preferred Term ( MedDRA  Version: 18.1 ReC
pulmonary and cerebral edema. Postmortem examination revealed a necrotizing bronchopneumonia due to 
invasive aspergillosis, CMV-infection of the lungs and presence of gram positive cocci in the kidneys and a 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) infection of the brain. The most likely immediate cause of death 
was considered to be the bronchopneumonia. The author discussed about the three patients who died at the 
(b) (6)  Hospital illustrate the difficulties of diagnosing IRIS and the problems in managing patients 
suspected of IRIS. In this case the patient developed MAC-IRIS which was treated with corticosteroids. His clinical 
situation improved at first, but eventually he developed several infectious problems, including a CMV- and an 
invasive pulmonary aspergillosis confirmed by postmortem examination. The author commented that patients 2 and
3 corticosteroids were started because IRIS was suspected but this likely contributed to the acquisition of an 
invasive aspergillus infection (not suspected pre-mortem) and subsequently the death of the patients. The author 
concluded that IRIS directly or indirectly can be a cause of mortality in patients with HIV. Patients with a CD4 
lymphocyte count < 100 cell/uL should be carefully screened for the presence of opportunistic infections and this 
should include serum CrAG testing even in asymptomatic patients before the start of ART. Before starting 
corticosteroid treatment in a patient suspected of IRIS it was important to investigate whether the patient does not 
have concomitant infections and during corticosteroid treatment patients should be monitored for the development 
of co-infections such as a generalized aspergillus infection. More trials are needed to evaluate options to prevent 
and treat IRIS. The three patients described in this paper demonstrate the importance of performing autopsies to 
determine causes of death in persons who die after starting ART.