AER 1462257 is a spontaneous case, received on 15/Sep/2014 from a physician via health authority (Health 
Canada,MHPD, reference number: 541792, A1031792A) and concerns a 58 year old female patient who 
experienced aphasia, asthenia, cognitive disorder, infection, jc virus infection, leukopenia, lymphopenia, 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and white matter lesion when treated with mycophenolate mofetil 
(Cellcept) and belimumab (Benlysta).
No medical history or past drugs were reported. Patient concurrent included hypertension. The patient's 
concomitant drugs included prednisone and hydroxychloroquine
On an unspecified date in Feb 2012, the patient started therapy with mycophenolate mofetil (route, form, dose and 
frequency not reported) for unknown indication. On 21/Feb/2013, patient started therapy with intravenous 
belimumab infusion 650 mg on 0, 2, 4 weeks and then every four weeks for systemic lupus erythematosus. On an 
unspecified date in Feb 2013, she received intravenous belimumab 680 mg infusion. Co manifestations of 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was brain virus, brain infection. Co manifestation of aphasia was 
dysphasia. Comanifestation of White matter lesion was white matter signal intensity abnormality. At end of May 
2013, she began to present with asthenia and cognitive problems. Workup revealed worsening of leucopenia. On 
13/Jun/2013, she received the most recent infusion of belimumab. It was reported that patient was still hospitalized 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 312 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
and the reason of hospitalization nor the length of hospitalization was provided. It was reported that, she was still in 
hospital for in determine time due to brain virus (brain infection).  On(b) (6) , she experinced multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy, proved JC virus polymerase chain reaction positive (PCR), and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). On
(b) (6)  she developed JC virus infection and multifocal leukoencephalopathy proved by MRI (nuclear 
magnetic resonance imaging) ans PCR cerebrospinal fluid.  On (b) (6) , she received most recent treatment 
with belimumab. It was reported that, she was still in hospital.  On (b) (6)  cerebral MRI compatible with M LE 
with multifocal white matter affection (white matter lesion).  On same day a head MRI, was performed to rule out 
vasculitis . The conclusion of MRI was : Prominent left temporal white matter signal intensity abnormality with left 
sub insular , basi frontal, and amygdalohippocamal involvement, with suspect bilateral cingulate gyrus involment for
which we must rule out herpes encephalitis. In an immunosuppressive context, progressive multifocal 
leucoencephalopathy (PML), should definitely be considerd given the morphology of anomalies. Multifocal 
involment is limited almost exclusive to left hemisphere without marked weighted restriction , making vasculitis less 
probable. Low grade glial lession  definitely seems less probable due to absence of mass effect and very minor 
involment of cerebral cortex. A polyomavirus (PCR assay) was also done on (b) (6)  no BK virus was detected
and jc viral was detected with 5.57x10 ^ 3 copies per ml of blood. The physician also reported that the time between
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy onset and stopping of mycophenolate mofetil was 3 weeks. the patient 
received 6 belimumab infusion (once per month since February to July 2013), no measurement concerning CD4 
was done and lymphocyte were 600. At the time of reporting the patient was dysphagia was stable, conscience and
oriented. The physician indicated that the patient never took rituximab. The patient had light moderate dysphasia 
and was doing better at the time of reporting. .On 08/Aug/2013, therapy with belimumab was stopped. On an 
unspecified date, aphasia was resolved with sequale. Mycophenolate mofetil in stopped in august 2013. On an 
unspecified date she developed apathy, executive dysfunction and  neurological decompensation later she was 
hospitalized. It was reported that event JC virus infection and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy duration 
was 33 days.
At the time of this report, the outcome of asthenia, cognitive disorder, infection, jc virus infection, leukopenia, 
lymphopenia, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, white matter lesion was not reported while event apathy,
executive dysfunction and neurological decompensation were resolved with sequelae.
The physician did not assess the causal relationship of the events aphasia, asthenia, cognitive disorder, infection, jc
virus infection, leukopenia, lymphopenia, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, white matter lesion, 
lymphopenia, apathy, executive dysfunction and  neurological decompensation with mycophenolate mofetil. 
The reporter assesed event multifocal leukoencephalopathy, jc virus infection white matter lesion probably related 
with belimumab while did not assessed the causality of event  aphasia, asthenia, cognitive disorderapathy, 
executive dysfunction and neurological decompensation.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 313 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The reporter assessed the event apathy, executive dysfunction and  neurological decompensation as medically 
significant.
The reporter assesed aphasia as permanently disabling because of partial language aphasia.
No further information was provided.
Additional information received on 24/Sep/2015. Following information was added to case: Reporter was added. 
Therapy details were updated. Events outcome was updated. causality was updated. Lab data was updated. 
Narrative amended accordingly.
Additional information was received on 14/Oct/2015. Following information was added in the case: reporter details 
were updated (primary reporter) , following adverse events were added to this case: apathy, executive dysfunction 
and  neurological decompensation. It was reported that event JC virus infection and progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy duration was 33 days.
No further information was reported.