AER 1462084 is a spontaneous case, received on 12/sep/2014 from a physician via health authority Agence 
Nationale de Securite du Medicament et des produits de Sante (France: CN20140353) and concerns a 69 year old 
male patient who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy while being treated with mycophenolate 
mofetil (cellcept), valganciclovir hydrochloride (rovalcyte), tacrolimus (prograf) and prednisone (cortancyl).
The patients medical history included end-stage chronic renal failure on ANCA-related vasculitis diagnosed in 2007 
after a pulmonary-renal syndrome, restrictive pulmonary syndrome secondary to silicosis, asbestosis and post-
smoking chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. His cardio-vascular risk-factors included hypertension, 
dyslipidemia, overweight, sedentarity and past smoking at 30 packages-years withdrawn in 1995. His familial 
history included mother's death from digestive cancer. The patient was repeatedly hospitalized since the beginning 
of 2014 because of exacerbations of chronic obstructive bronchopulmonary disease. His concurrent conditions and 
concomitant medications or past drugs were not reported. 
On(b) (6)  he had first preemptive renal transplant. In (b) (6)  the patient started therapy with oral 
mycophenolate mofetil (750mg, twice a day), valganciclovir hydrochloride (450mg, once a day dose, according to 
renal function), tacrolimus (1.5mg, twice a day) and prednisone (10mg, once a day)  for renal transplant. He 
developed in parallel cognitive disorders of rapidly progressive worsening, requiring hospitalization in neurology. 
Etiologic explorations evidenced john cunningham virus progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy within a 
context of long-term immunosuppression with mycophenolate mofetil, tacrolimus, prednisone and valganciclovir 
hydrochloride. On admission, treatment with mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus was temporarily interrupted. 
Prednisone dose was maintained at 20mg once a day. During hospitalization, the patient experienced multiple 
episodes of tonicoclonic seizures of the right hemicorpus, a major ideational slowing-down as well as a major 
hypotonia. The patient was then transferred in an other hospital for further management. On admission, the patient 
had no physical functional complaint. Glasgow score was at 15/15. He presented with temporo-spatial 
dysorientation, major hypophonia. Interviewing was difficult. A frontal lobe syndrome with global hypoactivity, 
cognitive disorders, memorizing difficulties, opposition hypertonia, bilateral grasping. Hypoesthesia of the left side 
of face was noted, cranial nerves were normal. Important pyramidal syndrome with bilateral Babinski's sign, sharp 
and diffuse osteotendinous reflexes mainly on the right, were present. Walking was impossible and the patient 
presented with a generalized spasticity. Cardiopulmonary examination was normal. Graft was not painful. No 
murmur was heard. Physical examination was otherwise normal. Control lumbar puncture was performed on 
admission and confirmed persistance of john cunningham virus in the spinal fluid. Mycophenolate mofetil and 
tacrolimus were not restarted. Dose of prednisone was decreased to 5mg once a day. Given the few data available 
in literature, Norset was introduced. The patient also received 3 injections of cidofovir full-dose weekly, with 
premedication with probenicide. Neurological outcome was not favorable with worsening of the symptoms present 
on admission. The patient progressively developed total aphasia and blindness, bilateral hypacusia. No more 
contact with the patient was possible. Glasgow score was at 9/15 (motor 6, eye 2, verbal 1). Total right hemiplegia 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 317 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
was still present. He refused cares, removed peripheral venous accesses, naso-gastric tube and refused all oral 
food or drugs. On (b) (6) , control nuclear magnetic resonance imaging showed sub and supra-tentorial area 
with hypersignal T2-FLAIR compatible with lesions of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy without 
associated contrast enhancement. A delayed signal anomaly, opposite the splenium of corpus callosum, was 
found, with a marked decrease of the apparent diffusion coefficient, initially described as atypical lesions of a 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and more likely in favor of superadded cerebral lymphoma. Given 
patient's general status degradation, his neurological impairment with negative short-term prognosis, it was decided
not to start resuscitation. On(b) (6)  the patient was died. It was not known whether an autopsy was 
performed or not.
The health authority assessed the causal relationship of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as related with
mycophenolate mofetil, tacrolimus, prednisone and valganciclovir hydrochloride. 
The french imputability concerning the event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was Chronological 1, 
Semiological 2 and Imputability 1 for mycophenolate mofetil, tacrolimus and prednisone and was Chronological 1, 
Semiological 1 and Imputability 1 for valganciclovir hydrochloride. 
No further information was provided.