Case number PHHY2014CH121214 is an initial literature case report received on 15 Sep 2014: The author 
discussed about a case report of multiple drug interactions in a patient with an increased CYP2C19 activity. This 
case report referred to a 35 year old female patient. The patient was diagnosed with AIDS (CDC stage C3) in May 
2012. A duodenal histoplasmosis and cryptococcosis infection were treated from Jun 2012 with a 3-week course of 
amphotericin B-flucytosine followed by oral voriconazole (manufacturer/formulation unknown) 100 mg twice daily. A
combined antiretroviral regimen (cART) was initiated with emtricitabine, tenofovir and raltegravir. As she developed 
a single large intracranial mass, voriconazole was given intravenously and doses were increased up to 4 mg/kg/12 
hour. A cerebral biopsy showed aspecific inflammatory infiltrates with-T lymphocytes, negative gram stain and 
broad range PCR. As the lesion was associated with a voluminous edema, she was started on IV (intravenous) 
dexamethasone 3 mg three times a day progressively tapered over 1 month. The proton pump inhibitor (PPI) 
esomeprazole (manufacturer/formulation unknown) 40 mg twice daily was started because of severe epigastralgia 
associated with duodenal histoplasmosis. Voriconazole first C0 was subtherapeutic (less than 1.0 ug/mL; range 1.0
- 5.0). The patient was genotyped for CYP2C19. It came heterozygous for the variant allele CYP2C19 17 (c.-
860C>T; rs12248560) that was associated with an increased enzyme activity. Phenotyping with omeprazole 2 mg, 
while on CYP2C19 inhibitor esomeprazole, showed decreased CYP2C19 activity (omeprazole metabolic ratio 10.5; 
cut-off 5). At that time voriconazole C0 was within the therapeutic range. Due to several HIV resistance mutations 
and hepatitis B status, cART was modified with the addition of abacavir in order to increase cerebral penetration of 
unboosted atazanavir together with maintenance of emtricitabine/tenofovir. Atazanavir absorption depends on 
gastric acidity. The patient was switched from esomeprazole to the histamine-2 receptor antagonist ranitidine, 
which was less potent in suppressing intragastric pH. Several voriconazole C0 were then measured below the 
therapeutic range despite substantial increased dosing. Darunavir-ritonavir regimen was introduced because of 
therapeutic failure and atazanavir was stopped. The patient presented with new onset epigastralgia and anemia. 
Ranitidine was replaced by esomeprazole 40 mg IV twice daily. Three days later, voriconazole C0 increased 14-fold
and the voriconazole dose was reduced by 50% 2.5 mg/kg twice daily. There were no other medication changes. 
Subsequent voriconazole C0 stayed within the therapeutic range. However the patient's condition deteriorated as 
she developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. She eventually died (b) (6)  months later. The author 
stated that, the integration of drug-drug interactions and pharmacogenetics data is crucial to interpret drug 
concentrations correctly, thus preventing suboptimal exposure to voriconazole. After esomeprazole was 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 338 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
reintroduced, the patient was taking both a CYP2C19 and a CYP 3A4 inhibitor, and voriconazole plasma levels 
reached therapeutic concentrations. Double blockade of voriconazole metabolic pathways (CYP2C19 and CYP3A4)
led to concentrations within the therapeutic range in a patient genetically susceptible to subtherapeutic voriconazole
concentrations.