Information was received on 12-Sep-2014. This is a case from an authority, WRN510: Authority case without 
Authority Number (CN20140353), reported by a Consumer referring to a 69-year-old male patient who experienced 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy during treatment for Kidney graft with Prograf (tacrolimus). 
Other suspect drugs used were mycophenolate mofetil Oral 750 mg twice daily for Kidney graft starting from Jun-
2013, prednisone Oral 10 mg once daily for Kidney graft starting from Jun-2013, and valganciclovir hydrochloride 
Oral 450 mg daily (adapted to renal function) other for Kidney graft starting from Jun-2013.
Historical Condition included Chronic renal failure, Silicosis, Asbestosis, and Post-smoking chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD); Procedure included Renal transplant; Risk Factor included Hypertension, 
Dyslipidemia, Overweight, Sedentary lifestyle, and Former smoker; and Other included Mother died of 
gastrointestinal cancer.
It was reported that the patient repeatedly hospitalized since early 2014 for exacerbations of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD).
No concomitant medication information was provided. 
The patient received tacrolimus for Kidney graft according to the following dosage regimens: Jun-2013 - Jun-2014: 
Oral 1.5 mg, twice daily.
Early 2014, the patient was presented with rapidly-progressive cognitive disorders resulting in hospitalization in 
Neurology.
On Jun-2014 the patient developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. 
The etiological investigations showed progressive, multifocal leukoencephalopathy due to JC virus in a patient with 
a history of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) vasculitis treated with immunosuppression and renal 
transplant with combination, long-term immunosuppressive therapy with mycophenolate mofetil, tacrolimus and 
prednisone. The patient was also receiving valganciclovir.
On admission, the treatment with mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus was suspended. The corticosteroid dosage
as maintained at prednisone 20mg/day. During hospitalization, the patient presented with numerous tonic-clonic 
episodes of the right half of the body, marked ideational retardation and major hypophonia.
The patient was subsequently transferred to another establishment for further care. On admission, clinically, the 
patient had no functional complaints. The patient presented with a Glasgow score of 15/15, temporospatial 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 342 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
disorientation and major hypophonia. Patient interview was difficult. The following were noted: a frontal syndrome 
with overall hypoactivity; cognitive disorders; memory difficulties; oppositional hypertonia; bilateral grasping. In 
addition, the following were noted: hypoesthesia of the left half of the face; no anomaly of the cranial nerve pairs; 
marked pyramidal syndrome with bilateral Babinski sign; marked and diffuse deep tendon reflexes predominating 
on the right; hemiparesis of the right half of the body. Walking was impossible and the patient presented 
generalized spasticity.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation: no anomaly detected. Palpation of the transplanted organ: pain-free. No murmur 
detected. Examination did not evidence any other anomalies.
Control lumbar puncture was conducted on admission to the department and confirmed the persistence of JC virus 
in the cerebrospinal fluid. The suspension of mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus was maintained. Corticosteroid 
dosage was reduced to prednisone 5 mg/day.
On the basis of the limited published data, Norset treatment was instituted. Similarly, the patient received, in all, 
three weekly injections of cidofovir full dose, with pre-medication with probenicid.
The neurological course was negative with exacerbation of the symptoms present on admission. Progressively, the 
patient presented with total aphasia, total blindness and bilateral hypoacusis. There was no contact with the patient.
The Glasgow score was 9/15 (M6Y2 V1). The patient continued to present with right complete hemiplegia. The 
patient was recalcitrant to care and tore off the peripheral venous catheters and nasogastric tube. The patient 
refused all oral food and oral medication administration.
In light of the patient's impaired general condition and the neurological condition with a poor short-term prognosis, it
was decided not to pursue intensive care.
Lab data included
 - 10-Jul-2014: Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging
On July 10, 2014: control MRI was conducted and showed sub- and supra-tentorial T2-FLAIR hypersignal fields 
compatible with progressive, multifocal leukoencephalopathy lesions, with no associated contrast medium uptake. 
There was also an abnormality of the signal from opposite the splenium of the corpus callosum with a marked 
reduction in the apparent diffusion coefficient, initially described as atypical lesions for progressive, multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy and considered suggestive of additional cerebral lymphoma. 
Treatment with tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil, prednisone and valganciclovir was discontinued. 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 343 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Action taken with tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil, prednisone and valganciclovir due to the event was not 
applicable.
The patient expired on (b) (6)  due to Death NOS. 
The outcome of Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was reported as fatal.
The Consumer assessed the following event with respect to tacrolimus: 
 - Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (seriousness: Death; causality: Unlikely-Related)
On 19-Sep-2014, listedness of the event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (CA and US) was corrected 
to listed (previously incorrectly captured as unlisted).