Huis in't Veld D, Lukande R, Lammens M, Conesa-Botella A, Vlieghe E, Van Marck E, et al. The immune 
reconstitution inflammatory syndrome: A cause of death in persons on antiretroviral therapy? Acta-Clin-Belg 2013; 
A 67-year-old HIV-positive man who received antiretrovirals [ routes and dosages not stated ] developed immune 
reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS), leading to complications including disseminated aspergillosis. He was 
hospitalised in (b) (6)  with Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, oral Herpes simplex virus infection, oesophageal 
candidiasis and progressive weight loss. Investigations revealed signs of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone 
secretion, with either HIV meningoencephalitis or progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. A month later, he 
started antiretroviral therapy with lopinavir/ritonavir, emtricitabine and tenofovir [unclear whether he received 
tenofovir or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate]; his CD4+ count was 4 cells/microL. As blood cultures revealed 
Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) infection, he also received clarithromycin and ethambutol. Two months later,
he developed a pericardial effusion and acute renal failure; renal biopsy revealed acute interstitial nephritis and 
acute tubular necrosis. The authors note that whether these manifestations were caused by IRIS or by tenofovir 
toxicity is unclear. Antiretroviral therapy was withdrawn, and he started renal dialysis. He received 
methylprednisolone 48 mg/day [ route not stated ], as nephropathy caused by MAC infection-associated IRIS of his 
kidneys was suspected. An Enterococcus faecalis infection developed and was treated with vancomycin; he 
improved clinically. He restarted antiretroviral therapy with abacavir, lamivudine and lopinavir/ritonavir. Three 
months later, he was hospitalised with a multipathogen (Enterobacter, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, cytomegaglovirus
(CMV) and Aspergillus fumigatus) pulmonary infection and possible CMV colitis; his renal failure had resolved. He 
died a few days later, with multiorgan failure. Autopsy revealed disseminated aspergillosis, probably related to 
prolonged corticosteroid use.