Case number# PHHY2014JP123515, is an initial literature case report received on 18 Sep 2014 and follow-up (full 
text) received on 29 Sep 2014. The author discussed about a female patient who developed malignant lymphoma 
and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) while receiving treatment with azathioprine, tacrolimus and 
cyclophosphamide. This report refers to a 57-year-old female patient. Medical history included psittacosis at age 
48. Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia at age 56. The onset of coughing occurred Jun 2010, and the patient was 
diagnosed in a transbronchial lung biopsy with cryptogenic organizing pneumonia at hospital A. The symptoms 
improved rapidly with the administration of corticosteroids. From Nov 2010, she started therapy with 75mg of 
azathioprine (unknown manufacturer and formulation), and the patient was stable for about half of a year. Due to 
re-exacerbation of the lung lesions in Jul 2011, 1mg of tacrolimus (unknown manufacturer and formulation) was 
added; however, improvement was poor, and the onset of staggering when walking occurred from the middle of Oct
2011. After that, the patient began to complain of paresthesia on the left side of the body and difficulty seeing to the
left; therefore she underwent an MRI of the head in early Nov 2011. The frequent occurrence of an abnormal signal
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 374 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
area centered on cerebral white matter on both sides was found, and the patient was introduced to the neurology 
department of hospital B. Azathioprine and tacrolimus were suspended, and steroid pulse as well as 
cyclophosphamide (unknown manufacturer and formulation) pulse were additionally administered. However, due to 
the lack of improvement in the neurological symptoms and progression of the disease, the patient was admitted to 
the hospital in (b) (6)  Upon Admission: Temperature 36.5 C; blood pressure 133/97mmHg. Pulse 
86/minute/regular. There were no other general findings of note. The level of consciousness was JSCI-1; color 
name naming deficit, ideality apraxia, notion motility apraxia, left side spatial neglect, left asomatognosia and left 
homonymous hemianopia were present, and scanning speech occurred. With the motor system, mild weakness of 
the upper arm and incoordination in the extremities and shaking was recognized; however, the differences between
left and right were not clear. A detailed sensory assessment was difficult to conduct; the tendon reflexes of the 
extremities were increased, and a difference between left and right was not recognized. The patient shook and 
required assistance when standing or walking. Laboratory findings: In a blood count, leukocytes were 5530/ul, and 
lymphocytes were 276/ul. CD4 was 6/ul, and CD8 was 10/ul, which were significant decreases. In blood 
biochemistry LDH was 454 IU/l, beta 2-microglobulin was 2.46mg/l and KL-6 was 1,675U/ml, which were elevated. 
Auto-antibody related findings were as follows: RF was 302.3 IU/ml, anti-SS-A antibody was 90.3 I.D., anti-SS-B 
antibody was 64.8 I.D, and PR3-ANCA was 9.4U/ml. With tumor-related findings, NSE was 17.2ng/ml and CYFRA 
was 5.0ng/ml, which were slightly elevated; however elevated sIL-2R was not found. With infection-related findings,
HIV-1/2 antibody was negative, CMV antigen was positive, and beta-D-glucan was elevated at 12.70pg/ml. In 
cerebrospinal fluid examination the number of cells did not increase, while protein was 80mg/dl and beta2-
microglobulin was 5.27ug/ml, which were elevated; however the laboratory culture and cytology were negative. 
Imaging findings: In a head MRI upon admission to the hospital, T2WI/FLAIR high signal areas occurred to a great 
degree primarily in the right middle cerebellar peduncle, right parietal lobe subcortical white matter and corpus 
callosum ampulla. With lesions of the right parietal lobe, the center showed a DWI low signal, and ADC was 
elevated. In susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI), the vein was mostly not observable within the same lesion. With 
lesions of the corpus callosum ampulla there was a DWI high signal, and ADC was also decreased. Contrast effect 
was not observed in these lesion sites. In a chest CT there were a large number of infiltrates in both lungs. In FDG-
PET there was no uptake in the brain lesions; rather, the uptake was relatively reduced. The uptake of FDG was 
found in multiple invasive lesions of the lungs; SUVmax was elevated to a maximum of 15.4, and uptake was also 
observed in the left pharyngeal tonsils, upper left deep cervical lymph nodes and spleen. In a transbronchial lung 
biopsy of the lower left lobe findings of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma were observed. With respect to the lung 
lesions, aside from the previous cryptogenic organizing pneumonia, Sjogren syndrome, Wegener syndrome, 
cytomegalovirus and fungal infection etc. were differentiated; however a diagnosis of malignant lymphoma was 
rendered from the pathology results. This was considered to constitute a secondary malignant tumor occurring from
an immunodeficiency state due to immunosuppressive drugs. With respect to the brain lesions as well, although 
fungal infection and malignant lymphoma, etc. were differentiated, from the cerebrospinal fluid examination and 
imaging findings the possibility of PML was considered, so administrations of mefloquine were initiated from early 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 375 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Dec (initially 275mg/day for 3 days; from the following week 275mg/week by nasogastric tube). Thereafter, in Nov, 
in a cerebrospinal fluid JCV-DNA test submitted to the (b) (6)  JCV Large T gene-
positive, JCV VP1 genepositive and significant viral load increase of JCV-DNA quantification (Large T): 4,556,250 
copies/ml were apparent, and the patient was diagnosed with probable PML. However, since a deterioration of the 
respiratory status was observed due to exacerbation of the lungs, CHOP therapy was conducted in late Dec. 
Although improvements of the lung lesions and respiratory status were recognized, the neurological symptoms 
were progressive, and the JCV result was an increase to 72,000,000 copies/ml. From Feb the dose of mefloquine 
was doubled (to 550mg/week), but the decorticate posture remained, and abnormal signals in the head MRI also 
continued to expand. Although the patient was transferred to hospital A in (b) (6)  she died in (b) (6)  due to the
progression of malignant lymphoma. Approval for an autopsy was not obtained. The author commented that in the 
present case no veins were observed in the lesions, and pathological conditions such as multiple sclerosis were 
considered negative. PML demyelinization constitutes the dislodgment of oligodendroglia infected with JCV; 
pathologically findings of inflammation were for the most part not observed, and the mechanism thereof was 
completely different from the demyelinating changes in multiple sclerosis. Consequently it was possible that SWI 
may be effective in distinguishing from inflammatory demyelinating disease. In the present example measurement 
of the concentration of mefloquine in the cerebrospinal fluid could not be conducted during the course of treatment, 
so that further genetic exploration was not possible. The further accumulation of cases as well as genetic testing 
and detailed studies including those involving the transport of mefloquine to the central nervous system are needed,
and the future implementation of clinical trials of mefloquine intended for non-HIV-related PML that take into 
account racial differences are anticipated.
Follow-up (full text) received on 29 Sep 2014: Updated author details, medical history, lab data, new event 
(paresthesia on the left side of the body), therapy start dates, treatment medication start date and its dose details.