Based upon additional information received on 10-Feb-2015 from the patient to a nurse via MS one to one patient 
support program, the case was upgraded to serious due to addition of an event wheelchair user which was 
assessed as medically significant.
Based upon additional information received on 27-Oct-2014 from MS one to one nurse the case type was changed 
from unsolicited to solicited as the patient was enrolled in the patient support program. 
Initial information regarding solicited case from United States was received to via MS one to one nurse of patient 
support program involving teriflunomide from a patient on 08-Jul-2014.
This case involves a 61 years old female patient (Patient ID: (b) (6) ) who experienced muscle atrophy/ lost a 
lot of muscle mass, had to elevate feet d/t swelling and had lesions up and down her spine and at the base of her 
brain and affected her balance, experienced increased fluid retention, weakness, wheelchair user, vision was 
worse, tested JV positive and had lesions in the spine and reported that she did not feel the aubagio was holding 
her MS enough, unknown duration after starting teriflunomide (Aubagio).
Past drugs included glatiramer acetate (Copaxone) and natalizumab (Tysabri) for multiple sclerosis. 
On 14-Apr-2013, the patient commenced treatment with oral teriflunomide at a daily dose of 14 mg (strength: 14 
mg, batch/lot number and expiry date: not provided, other therapy details: unknown) for multiple sclerosis which 
was stopped on an unknown date to restart therapy on 18-Oct-2013 with oral teriflunomide tablet at a dose of 14 
mg daily (strength: 14 mg, batch/lot number: 3DP4ASA, expiry date: 30-Apr-2015) for multiple sclerosis.
On an unknown date, unspecified latency after staring teriflunomide, the patient started losing muscle mass 
(muscle atrophy) and that it was harder for her to get out of her wheelchair. Upon f/up patient reported that she had 
to elevate feet due to swelling. Patient had not driven in 3 years. Patient had lesions up and down her spine and at 
the base of her brain. Patient reported that she had experienced increased fluid retention (onset date and latency: 
unknown). Patient was already on hydrochlorothiazide (concomitant medication) and was started on furosemide 
(Lasix) (corrective medication). She experienced weakness (onset date and latency: unknown). She was now in a 
wheelchair (onset date and latency: unknown). She feel her vision was worse now (onset date and latency: 
unknown) than it was when she on natalizumab. Patient tested JC positive (onset date and latency: unknown). She 
reported that her lesions were at the base of her brain and in the spine and affects her balance (onset date and 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 360 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
latency: unknown for all). Patient reported that she was diagnosed of optic neuritis 29yrs ago.
Upon follow-up, the patient stated that her doctor was talking about switching her to Gilenya because she did not 
feel the teriflunomide was holding her MS enough (onset: unknown; latency: unknown). On 15-Apr-2015, 
approximately 3weeks ago, the patient discontinued teriflunomide. The patient was switched to another product 
after accelerated elimination. Patient says her HCP was trying to stabilize her MS. She has lost a lot of muscle 
mass due to being in a wheelchair.
No action was taken.
Outcome: Unknown for all the events except subtherapeutic response (not applicable).
Reporter's Causality: Not reported
Company Causality: Associated
Seriousness assessment: medically significant for wheelchair user.
Additional information was received on 27-Oct-2014.
The events of had to elevate feet d/t swelling and had lesions up and down her spine and at the base of her brain 
were added. The case type was updated to solicited. Past drugs were added. Text amended accordingly. 
Additional information was received on 10-Feb-2015 from the patient to a nurse via MS one to one patient support 
program: Case upgraded to serious due to the addition of an event wheelchair user which was assessed as 
medically significant; added new events fluid retention, weakness, vision decreased, JC virus test positive, CNS 
lesion and balance; updated lab data, added patient's medical history, updated therapy start date of teriflunomide; 
added patient's age; updated therapy dates of past drugs and amended the text accordingly.
Additional information was received from a patient via patient support program on 25-Feb-2015:
New event added (subtherapeutic response), therapy start date for second regimen of suspect updated and text 
was amended accordingly.
Additional information was received from a patient via patient support program on 06-May-2015:
Therapy updated (stop date added). Event verbatim of muscle atrophy was updated to muscle atrophy/ lost a lot of 
muscle mass.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 361 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information