Case number PHHY2014FR116324, is an initial non novartis report received from an investigator via 
pharmaceutical company on 05 Sep 2014. This report refers to 49 year old female patient. Medical history of the 
patient included in Nov 2012 patient was treated with Libourne with a diagnosis of idiopathic myelofibrosis within a 
context of anaemia and thrombocytopenia, without organ infiltration, with hemoglobin (Hb) at 6.9 g/dl, neutropenia 
at 1300/mm3, no myelocytosis, thrombocytosis at 480/mm3, JAK2 negative. Absence of myeloid metaplasia in the 
spleen on investigation using radioactive isotopes. Myelofibrosis from Nov 2012, thrombosis of the left basilic vein 
in Jan 2013 of iatrogenic origin following an injection of contrast agent. Acute myeloid leukaemia from Jul 2013, 
CMV reactivation, cutaneous and gastrointestinal GVHD (graft versus host disease in intestine), strabismus from 
childhood and divergent strabismus surgically corrected in infancy. On an unknown date in (b) (6)  the patient 
underwent allogenic transplant. The patient received Neoral (ciclosporin) for an unknown indication at a dose of 100
mg, BID from an unknown date. On an unknown date, the dose of Neoral was decreased to 25 mg, BID. On 18 
November 2013, the patient was diagnosed with acute cutaneous GVHD sensitive to corticosteroid therapy. On 29 
Nov 2013, the patient was diagnosed with gastrointestinal GVHD resistant to corticosteroids. On 5 December 2013,
the patient was diagnosed with ALS (Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) within the context of study LINO 107. It was 
reported that the failure of treatment occurred. The patient received Antithymocyte Globulin (Antithymocyte 
Globulin) Infusion for the treatment of primary steroid refractory acute graft versus host disease (aGvHD) at a dose 
of 160 mg, QD from 05 Dec 2013. The patient received Leukotac (inolimomab) IV Infusion for the treatment of 
primary steroid refractory acute graft versus host disease (aGvHD) at a dose of 19.2 mg, QD from 13 Dec 2013. On
08 Dec 2013, Antithymocyte Globulin was discontinued. On 20 December 2013 the patient had reactivation of EBV 
(Epstein Barr virus) which was brought under control with difficulty with 3 injections of MABTHERA (rituximab) 
(max. 58,000 copies on 30/12). On 19 December 2013, the patient had reactivation of CMV (Cytomegalovirus) 
treated with Cymevan (ganciclovir sodium). On 27 Dec 2013, Leukotac was discontinued. In the end of January 
2014, the patient initiated PUVA therapy due to reactivation of the cutaneous GVHD. On 27 February 2014, the 
patient had septicaemia caused by Klebsiella and reactivation of the cutaneous GVHD. On 3 March 2014, the 
patient had persistent GVHD, initiation of ECP (extracorporeal photopheresis (2 sessions/week) (Neoral and 
Cortancyl). On 10 March 2014, the patient had reactivation of CMV on Rovalcyte (valganciclovir hydrochloride). 
Positive test for resistance to Cymevan. It was reported that treatment with IV Cymevan was effective. On 11 April 
2014, the patient was suffered with Neurological Lyme disease which was treated with doxycycline from 11 Apr 
2014 to 11 May 2014 (intrathecal secretion of anti Borrelia Ig). On 25 Apr 2014, the patient had septicaemia caused
by Klebsiella pneumoniae. On 30 Apr 2014, the patient underwent colonoscopy of the rectum and sigmoid colon 
and discrete GVHD lesions on anatomical pathology investigation. On 5 May 2014 reactivation of the cutaneous 
GVHD occurred. On 3 May 2014, the corticosteroids increased from 15 mg/day to 2 mg/kg/day and Neoral was 
increased to 200 mg/day. On (b) (6)  the patient was hospitalised in the department of dermatology due to 
laboratory signs of inflammation, with hepatic cytolysis, abdominal pain, GVH (Graft versus host disease in 
intestine) and GVH (graft versus host disease in skin). The patient was present with thickening of the walls of the 
small intestine, platelets count was 9,000 (transfusion of one unit of platelets). On an unknown date, morphine was 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 352 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
initiated via syringe driver for the treatment of diffuse abdominal pain. On (b) (6)  the patient experienced 
septic shock (arterial pressure of 80/50 mmHg, tachycardia at 113 bpm, temperature 38.5 degree centigrade). The 
patient also suffered from confusion and impaired consciousness. On an unknown date, IV antibiotic therapy was 
initiated with Tienam (cilastatin sodium, imipenem) /Amiklin (amikacin) and IV morphine was discontinued. In 
consideration of the clinical picture of severe sepsis confusion and impaired conciousness, the patient was 
transferred to intensive Care on (b) (6)  for continuation of her care. On admission, she was 57kg and 168cm 
with tachycardia of 110 bpm, normal blood pressure at 115/76 mmHg with temperature of 37.2 degree centigrade, 
oxygen saturation was 97 percent, glassgow sore of 13. The patient was confused and drowsy. Abdomen was soft 
and depressible but painful throughout. Bowel sound was present. A generalised maculopapular rash (cutaneous 
GVHD) was present. Her neurological examination as initially normal but 2 hours after admission to ICU she 
suffered total left hemiplegia and aphasia. On an unknown date, the patient laboratory results revealed 
pancytopenia, resulting in the transfusion of 3 units of red blood cells and 3 units of apheresis platelet concentrate. 
On (b) (6)  an MRI of head was performed in consideration of the neurological signs which revealed multiple 
ischemic lesions possibly suggestive of vasculitis, as well as anomalies evocative of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. The lumbar puncture was performed on the same date showed elevated protein, glucose 
and lactate levels in the CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) with less than one cellular element. Given the combination of 
cerebral ischemia, thrombocytopenia and haemolytic anaemia the main diagnosis suggested was thrombotic 
microangiopathy of the type thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, discovered during an episode of infection. The 
patient also received Doribaxax (doripenem) for the treatment of sepsis from (b) (6)  In the ICU, the patient 
also displayed neurological toxicity to Neoral (sudden onset of hemiplegia with spontaneous resolution) and on an 
unknown date, Neoral was discontinued and replaced with Rapamune (sirolimus). Haemolysis was also seen on 
Neoral in the form of pancytopenia (bone marrow assessment shows no evidence of a central origin of this 
pancytopenia). On(b) (6)  the patient blood pressure was 80/50 mmHg. A PCR for EBV showed 2010 copies
on (b) (6)  On (b) (6)  new infection with Klebsiella pneumoniae with recrudescence of the cutaneous 
and gastrointestinal GVHD treatment with corticosteroids and leukotac and decrease in the corticosteroids over 
course. Grade 4 mucositis on top of the GVHD and resumption of corticosteroids at 2 mg/kg/day, then reduction to 
1.75 mg/kg/day on 24/7. On (b) (6)  on admission to haematology, lung auscultation was cleared 
symmetrical with no rales. The patient abdomen was painful with a cramp like pain which was spontaneous and 
induced by palpitation in the region of colon. The patient developed diffuse polymorphic lesion all over the body with
desquamation. On (b) (6)  the patient blood potassium was 3.2 mmol/l, blood creatine was 70 umol/l, blood 
calcium was 2.31mmol/l, blood sodium was 131 mmol/l, haemoglobin was 8 g/dl, platelet count was 35000/mm3, 
protein total was 49000/m3, WBC was 4.4/ mm3, aspartate aminotransferase was 60 IU/l and alanine amino 
transferase was 51 IU/l. On (b) (6)  the patient started Solumedrol at 1 mg/kg/day and parenteral nutrition. 
On (b) (6)  the patient experienced oedema of the left arm (history of thrombosis of the left basilica vein). A 
Doppler ultrasound showed no signs of thrombophlebitis but the basilica vein was hypoplastic in appearance. The 
left subclavian vein was patent. It was monitored on (b) (6)   Parasitic infection test on (b) (6)  showed 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 353 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Asperg. Ag which was positive at 0.6. On(b) (6)  due to persistent haemolysis while on Rapamune. This was 
discontinued and switched to CellCept (mycophenolate mofetil). On(b) (6)  there was improvement of liver 
parameters was seen after discontinuation of Noxafil and Wellvone. On (b) (6)  1 ampoule of Uvedose 
administered for vitamin D deficiency and again on(b) (6)  On (b) (6)  performance of an abdominal CT 
scan given the persistence of gastrointestinal symptoms, in order to re evaluate the lesions. This revealed no 
change in the appearance of the ileitis in connection with the known GVHD (in comparison to the examination from 
16 May 2014). In consideration of the persistence of the epigastric pain within the context of gastrointestinal GVHD,
an upper GI endoscopy was also performed and revealed histologically normal mucosa in the duodenum, without 
evidence of GVHD in this sample. These biopsies showed PCR for EBV was weak positive, HHV6 was positive and
CMV was negative. Finally, in the middle of Jun, it was observed control over the GVHD on a gastrointestinal level 
with 1 or 2 loose stools per day and a marked improvement in abdominal pain. On (b) (6)  the patient suffered
a new episode of fever thought to be due to translocation of Klebsiella pneumonia from her stools due to 
gastrointestinal GVHD. On (b) (6)  bone marrow assessment performed due to progressive onset of 
persistent neutropenia despite the discontinuation of potentially haematotoxic drugs. Dysmyelopoiesis and 
unbalanced haematopoiesis. In the pathogen detection test of stool on (b) (6) , (b) (6) , (b) (6)  (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  and (b) (6)  Klebsiella pneumoniae, sensitive to penems, amiklin was detected. On 12 Jun 2014, 
enterococcus, sensitive to vanco was detected. Fungal infection test for the throat on (b) (6) , (b) (6)  and 
(b) (6)  showed presence of Candida albicans, Lactobacillus sp and C. guillermondii and C. orthopsilosis. On 
(b) (6)  corticosteroids were reintroduced due to skin inflammation. No improvement was seen so Leukotac 
was reinitiated at one injection a day until discharge. On(b) (6)  the patient suffered CMV reactivation. There 
was rapid increase of WBC seen with administration of growth factor. On an unknown date, transfusion of 6 units 
apheresis platelet concentrate, 6 unit of mixed platelets and 12 units RBC was carried out. On(b) (6)
cortiosteroids was progressively decreased to 1.5 mg/kg/day then 1.3 abd 1.1 mg/kg/day but due to grade 4 
mucositis within the context of oral GVHD. On (b) (6)  there was reactivation of CMV in the blood, requiring 
initiaton of treatment with foscavir (manufacturer unknown), with reduction to 1 injection per day after 15 days of 
treatment and discontinued on (b) (6)  due to genital toxicity of foscavir.  Reactivation of EBV in 2 samples 
from (b) (6)  and(b) (6)  was seen. The patient did not want to be treated at the moment. Fungal 
infection test on(b) (6)  of the stool showed presence of Candida guillermondii, C. kefyr, C. albicans. On (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  Stenotrophomonas maltophila, sensitive to levofloxacin (Resistant to C3G, vanco, penems) was 
detected. On (b) (6)  Asperg. Ag was positive which was monitored on (b) (6)  and negative. On (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  Asperg. Ag was positive at 1.576. In the pathogenic test of mouth on (b) (6)  lactobacillus species and C. 
guillermondii was detected.  Fungal infection test on (b) (6)  of the stool showed presence of Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae and C. orthopsilosis. On (b) (6)  corticosteroids was started at 2 mg/kg/day. Bone marrow test on (b)  
(b) (6)  showed CMV weak positive, EBV 15700 copies and B19 was positive.  In the pathogenic test of (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  K. pneumoniae, sensitive to Doribax was detected. Gastric biopsy showed PCR for EBV which was weak 
positive, HHV6 positive and CMV negative. On (b) (6)  renewed reactivation of CMV was seen, PCR for CMV 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 354 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
was weak positive, on (b) (6)  1100 copies, on(b) (6)  2839 copies. Fungal infection test on(b) (6)
of the stool showed presence of C. parapsilosis. Resumption of Doribax, Amiklin and treatment with Ambisome 
(amphotericin B) was initiated. On (b) (6)  antibiotics were discontinued. On (b) (6)  Ambisome was 
discontinued and switched to Noxafil (posaconazole), with monitoring of hepatic parameters. It was observed that a 
renewed reactivation of the virus in the samples from (b)(6)  and 
(b) (6) . On (b) (6)  Asperg. Ag showed 
positive test. On (b) (6) , parenteral nutrition was discontinued. On (b) (6)  the patient switched to 1.75 
mg/kg/day. Given the frequent positive results for Aspergillus antigens, a CT scan of the thorax and sinuses was 
performed on (b) (6)  and no visible signs of aspergillosis were seen. It was reported that despite the atypical 
appearance of the lesions, a skin biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of GVHD. It was observed a progressive 
improvement in the lesions on high dose corticosteroids. However, upon reduction of the corticosteroid dose, 
observed a recrudescence of the GVHD. It was observed that a good improvement with progressive healing of the 
skin lesions. Therefore, a renewed decrease in the corticosteroid dose was attempted. However, at the start of Jul, 
observed the onset of oral mucositis which rapidly worsened. All of the bacteriological and virological samples 
obtained came back negative. The dermatologists confirmed that the lesions had the appearance of GVHD. 
Corticosteroid therapy at 2 mg/kg/day was therefore resumed and this resulted in an improvement in the mucositis. 
At discharge of the patient from hospital, it was reported that the GVHD is currently under control on 1.75 
mg/kg/day of corticosteroids and Leukotac at 1 injection per day. There had been progressive resumption of 
feeding. The patient would be monitored at home by a dietician. In terms of infection, the patient has remained free 
of fever following the discontinuation of antibiotics. On a viral level, an initial reactivation of CMV was treated with 1 
month of foscavir. This was discontinued due to problems with tolerance. The patient was refused to resume 
treatment. The risks of infection with CMV, in particular it was potentially fatal outcome, have been explained to the 
patient in a clear and accurate manner. It was reported that the patient had understood the information and had 
asked questions. Despite this, the patient wanted to be discharged. The patient would decide this weekend whether
or not she wishes to initiate treatment. She had been informed that she would be expected in G6 on Monday, 
otherwise she can also go to G1 for the continuation of her maintenance Leukotac and standard monitoring. It was 
to be noted that treatment with antidepressants was initiated while on the department (on 08 Jul 2014). Clinical 
examination at discharge of patient showed Cutaneous GVHD in the process of resolving, purplish appearance of 
the lower limbs. Inside the mouth there was persistence of ulcerative lesions on the tongue and cheeks which are in
the process of healing. No signs of fluid overload. The patient lab data at the time of discharge was WBC 6.75 x 
E9/l, Hb was 10.6g/dl, platelets 39 x E9/l. It was reported that the renal function was good with creatinine at 
66umol/l, Na/K was 136/4.2, Ca/P was 2.23/1.21, AST/ALT was 43/66 IU/l, GGT was 272 and ALP was 224. The 
seriousness of the events inflammation, hepatic cytolysis and abdominal pain was reported as hospitalization. 
Seriousness for other events was not reported. The outcome of the event cutaneous GVHD, ulcerative lesion on 
tongue was reported as condition improving, for septic shock was reported as complete recovery on (b) (6)
for fever reported as complete recovery on an unknown date and for other events was not reported. The causality 
of the events septic shock and GVH (skin and digestive reactivation) was reported as not suspected with the 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 355 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
treatment of Leukotac and ATG and for other events was not reported. The causality of the events was not reported
for the Neoral. No possibility to contact the investigator, hence case was considered to be lost to follow up at initial.