PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY
(USA) Initial information was received on 21Aug2014 from the prescriber regarding the 71 year old male who 
received Pomalyst for the treatment of multiple myeloma diagnosed in 2007. According to information previously 
provided, the patient was dispensed Pomalyst 4mg orally daily from Jul 2013. The patient was previously treated 
with multiple cycles of Revlimid and dexamethasone followed by an autologous transplant. The patient was started 
on Pomalyst  for his relapsed disease in conjunction with dexamethasone. The lot number and expiration date was 
not provided. On an unknown date, the patient developed abrupt onset of cognitive issues. The prescriber just saw 
the patient in clinic in mid July and he was doing well. 
On (b) (6)  the patient was hospitalized due to a final diagnosis of life threatening progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. The etiology of the event or laboratory/diagnostic results were not provided. The outcome of 
theevent was not recovered. Pomalyst was permanently discontinued this month due to the event. The patient was 
sent to hospice care
The reporter did not provide an assessment of the causal relationship of the event with Pomalyst. 
Additional  information will be requested. 
Additional information was received on 12Sep/2014 from a prescriber regarding this elderly male who received 
therapy with Pomalyst 4 mg capsule orally from 23Jul2013 to 24Jul2014 (also reported as to /Aug/2014).  The 
patient was  diagnosed with IGA  myeloma ISS stage 3 DS stage 3A on 13Sep2007. The response to therapy of the
multiple myeloma was reported as stable at the time of PML.   The patient has a history of autologous stem cell 
transplant on 03Mar2008. Concomitant therapies included: acyclovir, aspirin, Imodium, acetaminophen amlodipine, 
Avodart, carvedilol, Alka Seltzer cold and sinus, fluticasone, haloperidol, omeprazole, ondansetron, temazepam, 
tramadol.
The onset date of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy on 18Aug2014. The patient developed neurological 
dysfunction: confusion and aphasia,  including word finding difficulty and intermittent confusion over the past few 
weeks prior to(b) (6)  Initial workup revealed a left frontal non enhancing lesion.  Lumbar puncture  (b) (6)   
showed glucose of 56 (nl) protein 45 (normal), WBC 1, RBC 456.  He was transferred to OSU for further workup. 
There was no prior HIV or other immunosuppressive conditions other than multiple myeloma. 
Diagnostic testing also reported included: 
28Jan2008:  HIV 1 and 2:  non reactive
18Aug2014:  lumbar PUNCTURE. JC/BK virus P positive in cerebral spinal fluid confirmin PML
16/Aug/2014  MRI Brain W/WO Contrast : Patchy hyperintense T2/FLAIR siignal involving the periventricular and to
lesser extend the subcortical white matter bilaterally, with many superimposed more focal T2/FLAIR 
hyperintensities scattered in the periventricular and subcortical white matter. A few foci are also seen in the superior
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 369 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
basal ganglia mainly along the external capsules. Overall findings compatile with severe small vessel disease. In 
addition, there is a more localized, coalescent area of bright T2/FLAIR signal in the left frontal lobe extensing from 
periventricular region to the juxytacortical white matter at the left middle frontal gyrus.Appearance is somewhat 
vasogenic edema-like however no obvious brain swelling nor volume loss. Left frontal lobe could represent an area 
of white matter infarction /ischemia  but the central focus of high ADC seems unusual. In the proper clinical setting, 
various inflammatory or infectious conditions might potentially cause such an appearance for example PML.Area of 
atypical abnormal signal involving left frontal lobe, showing both decreased and increased ADC, but no 
enhancement. Differential diagnosis would include ischemic, infections/inflammatory neoplastic etiologies. Atypical 
involvement by lymphoma would be a possibility. Suggest comparison with clinically described previous MRI study, 
along with detailed clinical correlation. Severe small vessel disease. Focus of prominent increased susceptibility at 
tip of left frontal horn, as discussed above.  There was no prior MRI for comparison.
22Aug2014  WBC 6.4, hemoglobin 11.2, platelet count: 143
The hospital physician note on (b) (6)  reported that the patient was afebrile with a temperature of 98.3, blood 
pressure of 176/86, pulse 53, oxygen saturation of 97 percent. He was conscious and alert with continued global 
aphasia and unable to follow commands consistently. He had better verbal responses to queries and formed short 
sentences but continued with difficulty with word finding.  There was mild right facial weakness.  Gait was not 
tested. He was reported as improved with still some confusion.  A discussion was held with the family regarding 
treatment therapies, prognosis and outcomes of options in context of progressing myeloma.   The patient and 
family decided on hospice and preparations were made for in-patient hospice. 
While hospitalized the patient experienced C diff positive diarrhea and was started on Flagyl without improvement 
then switched to oral vancomycin which improved the diarrhea and by discharge he had semi formed stools. He 
was discharged to inpatient hospice on (b) (6)  with instructions for oral vancomycin. He was a DNR status 
The prescriber reported that therapy with Pomalyst was permanently discontinued due to the event of progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy.  The outcome of the event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was 
death on(b) (6)
The reporter assesed the causal relationship for the event of  progressive  multifocal leukoencephalopathy and 
possibly related to Pomalyst.  Other causes included myeloma and dexamethasone. Celgene agrees with the 
causality statement.