Follow-up information received on 19-Sep-2014, case was upgraded to serious case due to the serious events of 
vision decreased, JC virus infection and MS relapse (seriousness criteria: medically significant).
Initial information regarding this clinical sponsored solicited case from United States was received on 05-Jun-2014 
from a patient via MS one to one program.
This case concerns a 46 year old female patient ((b) (6) ) who could not see out of right eye and at present 
vision was decreased (Vision decreased), had jc virus infection, MS relapse, feeling of heaviness in her legs, 
muscle pain in her legs and loosening of hair/hair loss in pubic area and scalp and experienced sore spots on 
scalp, blood pressure was elevated, depression, chronic body pain, difficulty sleeping, waking up exhausted 
(asthenia), rash, sores, blisters, presented elevation of liver enzymes, pain, legs wont straighten out/problems with 
movement and getting up, bad odor in her urine, itching on head, legs hurt and cramps from her hips down to her 
toes, sores on her head, diarrhea/watery diarrhea, high cholesterol, left descending colon pain, chronic eye pain 
extends behind ears, stress and had noise sensitivity, difficulty swallowing which was getting worse after an 
unspecified latency, gets hives/blotchy red spots on the back of her neck and arms after few months and got all 
achy after few hours of treatment, bad cold, fever and more fatigue than normal; 6 months after, lost 23 lbs in 3 
months/lost 30 pounds in six months/Due to watery diarrhea that started 8 months ago, the consumer has lost 30 
pounds and her urine was smelly few months after, occasional pain under right rib/sharp pain under right rib and 
her left side/arp pain under left rib on back side near kidney and under right rib, feels like kidney is swollen and 
about to burst few months after starting treatment with teriflunomide (Aubagio). Reportedly, she also had foul odor 
from her bowels/stool was smelly as well, urine has been dark/urine was orangish-brown and smelly and nausea, 
11 months after and her red blood cells (RBCs) were up, hematocrit up, monocytes (monos) elevated and BUN 
was low 1.4 years after starting teriflunomide (Aubagio).
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 380 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Medical history of vision problems (right eye) and optical neuritis since diagnosed with MS. In 2005, she had her 
gallbladder removed (removal laproscopically), hysterectomy in 2009 for cancer cells. Patient's lungs were thick 
and she could not get air. When taking dimethyl fumarate (Tecfidera) (past medication), she had severe diarrhea 
and decreased feeling in her right arm.  She she gained around 23 lbs, was on glatiramer acetate (Copaxone) and 
interferon beta-1A (Avonex) as previous MS therapy, diabetes (2009).
On 04-Jun-2014, the patient commenced the therapy with oral teriflunomide at a dose of 14 mg daily (lot number 
and expiry date: 5A32ASA 28-Feb-2018) for the treatment of multiple sclerosis.  Several hours after taking her first 
dose, per her report she said that she got all achy, like when having the flu. Patient took paracetamol (Tylenol) 
(corrective), and the aches went away. Since starting teriflunomide, she had experienced feelings of heaviness in 
her legs (not sure if it started before starting teriflunomide), muscle pain in legs and 'loosening' of hair. Patient had 
sore spots on scalp, had "problems" with previous therapy, fumarate experienced depression during the therapy. 
Her labs completed and her blood pressure checked. Her blood pressure was elevated and was on blood pressure 
medication. Her physician was monitoring her blood pressure. She was taking dimethyl fumarate (Tecfidera) and 
had an immediate relapse;took her last pill on 01-Jul-2014. She experienced relapse with inability to walk related to 
decreased elasticity in right leg which was constant and left leg elasticity on occasion. Started on corticosteroid 
NOS (Steroid) after HCP appointment. Mobility was down 10%. Had chronic body pain, difficulty sleeping and 
waking up exhausted. Had increased diazepam (Valium) to aide with sleep. Blood work last month showed 
elevation of liver enzymes. Had liver enzymes checked again within two weeks. Before being diagnosed, could not 
see out of right eye and at present vision was decreased. Experienced side effects with Copaxone after being on it 
for approximately 10 years. Had tested positive for John Cunningham virus (JC Virus). In 2014, 2-3 months, after 
taking her teriflunomide she got hives/blotchy red spots on the back of her neck and arms. She had a deep itching 
and has scratched some of the spots raw. She was putting lotion on these areas. She eliminated salt in her diet. 
Experienced rash, sores and blisters while taking teriflunomide 14 mg. Around 25-Dec-2014, experienced bad cold 
and fever. She had felt much more fatigued than normal. She was struggling with this more and more each day. 
She took Vitamin B, ergocalciferol (Vitamin D), ascorbic acid (Vitamin C), blood pressure medicine and 
amphetamines for fatigue, but stated this did not help, it just made her heart hurt. Her hairwere still coming out and 
had been since starting teriflunomide. Had pain and stated her legs won't straighten out (date: unspecified).
Complained of fatigue. Had been on teriflunomide since Jun-2014 and started taking in the morning as she forgot 
to take her medication at bedtime. Two hours after taking her medication she was very fatigued. Taking medication 
at night was recommended. Patient was checking her blood sugar 3 times daily including at bedtime and kept a 
record of her reading. Was advised to discuss the side effects with doctor so as to determine to change therapy or 
have alternate/additional recommendations. For about the past year, she can hardly stand to walk.  Had been 
having problems with walking, she could not stretch her legs out and her HCP believed the elasticity was leaving 
her legs.  Had problems with movement and getting up. Since starting teriflunomide, she had a bad odor in her 
urine (date: 2014 and latency: unknown) and in the last 3 months she had lost about 23 lbs (date: 2015 and latency:
few months). This had increased since her hormones (synthroid) was increased. Had sores and itching on her head
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 381 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(date and latency: unknown). Reportedly, she was having constant diarrhea (date: 2014 and latency: unknown) 
since starting teriflunomide and also her legs hurt and cramp from her hips down to her toes (date and latency: 
unknown).  On unspecified dates, unknown duration after starting teriflunomide the patient experienced occasional 
pain under right rib/sharp pain under right rib and her left side (in 2015, latency: few months) high cholesterol, left 
descending colon pain, chronic eye pain extends behind ears some times, stress and noise sensitivity. The patient 
had a hair loss in pubic area and scalp. The patient had had no gall bladder. She lost 35 pounds without trying, 
difficulty in walking, leg pain/cramps in back of legs and used pain medicines and muscle relaxers. The patient 
could not take steroids due to weak heart. Patient's T-spine lesions were gone. The patient reported diarrhea, foul 
odor from her bowels and urine, dark urine, nausea, weight loss (onset: Mar-2015, latency: few months), pain, 
abnormal blood work and problem swallowing. The consumer stated that the diarrhea started approximately 8 
months ago. Treatment for this has been watching what she eats. The diarrhea was ongoing at the time of this 
report. She reported a foul odor from her bowels (May-2015: 11 months latency) and urine for approximately 6 
months and said they smell like a person dying. There has been no treatment for this. The foul odor from her 
bowels and urine was ongoing at this time. She stated her urine has been dark for approximately 6 months (May-
2015: 11 months latency). Treatment included a urinalysis at her primary care physicians' office around 2-3 months 
ago which was negative. Also, her neurologist wants her to see a kidney specialist but the appointment has not 
been set up yet. She reported nausea that comes on all of a sudden for the past six months (May-2015: 11 months 
latency). Treatment for this includes lying down or making herself vomit. This usually makes her feel better. She 
has lost 30 pounds in the past six months. There has not been any treatment for this.Treatment for rib pain 
included Norco (Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen) 7.5 mg and Robaxin (methocarbamol) 500 mg that she breaks in 
two but takes both sections. The consumer reported that she last had blood work done 4 months ago and her liver 
function panel was slightly elevated and she has not had it repeated since then. Treatment for this is to have her lab
work redone, not ordered as of the time of this report. The consumer does state she has difficulty swallowing which 
started a few years ago but is getting worse (onset and latency: unknown). Treatment for this included having a 
light down her throat in 2013 and she was due for that again this month but no one has contacted her to set this up 
at the time of this report. The diarrhea, the foul odor from her bowels and urine, the dark urine, the nausea, the 
weight loss, the pain, the abnormal lab work, and the problem swallowing are all ongoing at the time of this report. 
Consumer did state that she saw her neurologist day before reporting and she was going to call him today and ask 
for the lab work order to be sent to her so she can get the labs done. He was aware of the issues she was having 
and she thought he was setting her up with a kidney doctor to see. At the time of this report, the teriflunomide was 
continuing.
On 12-Nov-2015, she had labs drawn that showed RBCs, hematocrit, and monos elevated while BUN was low 
(latency: 1.4 years). The RBCs were 5,000.520, hematocrit was 49.4, monos were 0.7, and BUN was 6 (units: 
unspecified). Treatment would include neurologist sending her to see a urologist and a blood doctor for further 
testing. She had no previous history of abnormal lab values. The event was ongoing. Due to watery diarrhea that 
started 8 months ago, she had lost 30 pounds. The watery diarrhea happened all day. Treatment had included 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 382 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
talking with husband and doctor and trying to eat peanut butter, bananas and drink sport drinks. She had no 
previous history of watery diarrhea and weight loss. The event had not improved at all and was ongoing. For the 
past 8 months, she had noticed an odor from urine and stool. The urine was orangish-brown and smelly (onset: 
Mar-2015, latency: unspecified) and the stool was smelly as well. Treatment had included mentioning to her 
husband and doctor, who would be sending her to see a urologist. She had no previous history of odor from urine 
and stool. The event was ongoing. A couple of weeks ago, she began experiencing a sharp pain sometimes under 
left rib on back side near kidney and under right rib. It was not daily, happened just sometimes, and felt like kidney 
was swollen and about to bust. Treatment had included not drinking as much coffee as she used to and was down 
to 7-8 cups a day now. She discussed with doctor who said it was her gallbladder, however, she did not have a 
gallbladder anymore. The event was ongoing. The event had resolved. Teriflunomide was ongoing at the time of 
this report.
Action taken: No Action Taken
Outcome: unknown for could not see out of right eye and at present vision is decreased, jc virus, ms relapse, 
feeling of heaviness in her legs, sore spots on scalp, depression, sores, blisters, chronic body pain, difficulty 
sleeping, waking up exhausted, fever, itching on head, legs hurt and cramps from her hips down to her toes, pain, 
legs wont straighten out/ problems with movement and getting up, high cholesterol, chronic eye pain extends 
behind ears, stress, noise sensitivity, blood pressure is elevated, gets hives/blotchy red spots on the back of her 
neck and arms, rash, bad cold, muscle pain in her legs, sores on her head, left descending colon pain.
Not recovered for lost 23 lbs in 3 months/lost 30 pounds in six months/Due to watery diarrhea that started 8 months
ago, the consumer has lost 30 pounds, got all achy, bad odor in her urine, more fatigue than normal, elevation of 
liver enzymes, loosening of hair/hair loss in pubic area and scalp, diarrhea/watery diarrhea, occasional pain under 
right rib/sharp pain under right rib and her left side/arp pain under left rib on back side near kidney and under right 
rib,feels like kidney is swollen and about to burst, foul odor from her bowels/stool is smelly as well, urine has been 
dark/urine is orangish-brown and smelly, difficulty swallowing which is getting worse, nausea, red blood cells 
(RBCs) were up, hematocrit up, bun was low, urine is smelly and monocytes (monos) elevated.
Reporter causality: Not associated for ms relapse, weight loss and not reported for the other events.
Company causality: Associated for could not see out of right eye and at present vision is decreased, jc virus, got all 
achy, feeling of heaviness in her legs, sore spots on scalp, depression, sores, blisters, chronic body pain, difficulty 
sleeping, waking up exhausted, fever, more fatigue than normal, pain, elevation of liver enzymes, blood pressure is 
elevated, loosening of hair/hair loss in pubic area and scalp, gets hives/blotchy red spots on the back of her neck 
and arms, rash, bad cold, muscle pain in her legs, 
Not associated for lost 23 lbs in 3 months/lost 30 pounds in six months/Due to watery diarrhea that started 8 
months ago, the consumer has lost 30 pounds, ms relapse, bad odor in her urine, itching on head, legs hurt and 
cramps from her hips down to her toes, legs wont straighten out/ problems with movement and getting up, high 
cholesterol, chronic eye pain extends behind ears, stress, noise sensitivity, sores on her head, diarrhea/watery 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 383 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
diarrhea, occasional pain under right rib/sharp pain under right rib and her left side/arp pain under left rib on back 
side near kidney and under right rib,feels like kidney is swollen and about to burst, left descending colon pain, foul 
odor from her bowels/stool is smelly as well, urine has been dark/urine is orangish-brown and smelly, difficulty 
swallowing which is getting worse, nausea, red blood cells (RBCs) were up, hematocrit up, bun was low, urine is 
smelly, monocytes (monos) elevated.
Seriousness criteria: Medically significant for vision decreased, jc virus infection and multiple sclerosis relapse. 
Important medical event for lost 23 lbs in 3 months
Additional information was received on 16-Jun-2014 from the patient via(b) (6)  Events 
(feeling of heaviness in her legs, muscle pain in her legs and loosening of hair) were added. Past medication (all) 
was added. Medical history (all) was added. 
Additional information was received on 30-Jun-2014 from the patient via (b) (6)  Event of 
sore spots on scalp added. 
Additional information was received on 02-Jul-2014 and 03-Jul-2014 from the patient via (b) (6)
(b) (6)  and processed together with the CSD of 02-Jul-2014: Events of blood pressure was elevated and 
depression is added. Concomitant medication added (dimethyl fumarate). Lab test added (blood pressure 
elevated). Clinical course updated. 
Additional information was received on 19-Sep-2014, from the patient via(b) (6)  The 
case has been upgraded to serious due to serious events of vision decreased, JC virus infection and MS relapse. 
Age of patient updated. Additional events body pain, difficulty sleeping, asthenia, elevation of liver enzymes, vision 
decreased, jc virus infection and ms relapse added.  Additional past medications added. Event outcome for the 
event of hair thinning was updated from unknown to recovering. Corrective treatment added as steroid and valium.
Additional information was received on 26-Nov-2014, from the patient via (b) (6)
Additional event of "gets hives/blotchy red spots on the back of her neck and arms" was added with associated 
smptoms of "deep itching" and "blotchy skin".
Additional information was received on 29-Dec-2014 from consumer: new event of rash, sores and blisters were 
added.
Additional information was received on 27-Feb-2015 from the patient via (b) (6)  The events of bad cold, 
fever, more fatigue than normal, pain and legs wont straighten out were added. The outcome for the event of 
loosening of hair was updated. 
Additional information was received on 02-Mar-2015: Additional reporter added for physician and pharmacist: 
Teriflunomide therapy was kept ongoing. Clinical course was updated. 
Additional information was received on 15-Jun-2015 from the patient via (b) (6) :Events of lost 23 
pounds in 3 months, bad odor in her urine, itching on head, legs hurt and cramps from her hips down to her toes, 
sores on her head and diarrhea were added; verbatim for unable to walk/ problems with walking/ hardly stand to 
walk, decreased elasticity in right leg/ elasticity is leaving her legs and legs wont straighten out/ problems with 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 384 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
movement and getting up was updated; company causality for legs wont straighten out/ problems with movement 
and getting up was updated.
Additional information was received on 08-Sep-2014 from the patient via(b) (6)  Medical 
history (hysterectomy and no gall bladder), additional events of occasional pain under right rib, high cholesterol, left 
descending colon pain, chronic eye pain extends behind ears, stress and had noise sensitivity were added, as 
reported term of loosening of hair was changed to loosening of hair/hair loss in pubic area and scalp. 
Additional information received on 11-Nov-2015 from the patient via (b) (6)  foul odor from
her bowels, dark urine, nausea, problem swallowing added, verbatim and outcome of weight loss, verbatim, linking,
corrective and outcome of rib pain, outcome of the abnormal lab work, outcome of diarrhea updated, lot details, 
therapy start date updated. 
Additional information was received on 16-Nov-2015 from the patient via (b) (6)  and live 
follow up was received on the same day, both were processed together: Events of urine odour abnormal, monocyte
count high, RBC increased, hematocrit increased and BUN decreased were added. Outcome of urine color and 
stool color was updated. Onset, verbatim and reporter's causality of weight loss was updated. Verbatim of diarrhea 
was updated. Therapy start date was updated.