Morimoto A, Ueno H, Fujii H, Nakamura T, Nakamichi K, Saijo M, et al. Ineffective mefloquine therapy in 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy complicated with malignant lymphoma: finding and usefulness of 
susceptibility-weighted imaging. Rinsho-Shinkeigaku 2013; 53(10) 843-847 
A 57-year-old woman developed malignant lymphoma and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) while
receiving treatment with azathioprine, tacrolimus and cyclophosphamide [ routes not stated; not all dosages stated 
]. The woman was diagnosed with cryptogenic organised pneumonia in June 2010. Her symptoms had improved 
with the treatment of corticosteroids [ specific drug not stated] azathioprine 75mg was added to her treatment, and 
her disease remained stable. In July 2011, the pulmonary lesions were again aggravated. She was initiated on 
tacrolimus 1mg per day without much improvement. As of mid-October 2011, she started to experience weakness 
in walking followed by an abnormal sensation on her left side and also claimed difficulties with eyesight on her left 
side. In early November 2011, a head MRI revealed many abnormal signal range in the bilateral cerebral white 
matter. The woman's tacrolimus and azathioprine were discontinued, and she was treated with corticosteroid 
pulses. In addition, cyclophosphamide pulses were added. However, there was no improvement in her neurological 
symptoms and the disease continued to progress. Therefore, she was hospitalised at the (b) (6)
Her level of consciousness was JCS I-1, and she had exhibited nominal aphasia, ideational apraxia, left 
hemiasomatognosia, left hemispatial neglect, left homonymous hemianopsia, and scanning speech. Motor 
disturbances included loss of left limbs muscle strength, and limb coordination disturbance was also noted. There 
was enhanced tendon reflex in her limbs. Standing movement and walking required assistance because of shaking.
She had marked decrease in WBC, lymphocytes, CD4 and CD8 counts. On admission, head MRI revealed many 
instances of T2WI/FLAIR hyper-intense signals in the splenium of corpus callosum, the right middle cerebellar 
peduncle, and right parietal lobe subcortical white matter. Lesions in the right parietal lobe central region had low 
DWI signals and ADC was elevated. The splenium of corpus callosum lesion showed high intensity DWI signals, 
but ADC showed low signalling. Based on the pathology findings, she was definitively diagnosed with malignant 
lymphoma. Her CSF findings and various imaging studies suggested PML. She was then initiated on mefloquine. 
Her JCP-DNA quantification (Large T) had a markedly increased viral load, suggesting a diagnosis of probable 
PML. She underwent CHOP chemotherapy because of aggravation of her pulmonary lesions. Lung lesions and 
respiratory conditions improved, but her neurological symptoms continued to progress. As of February 2012, her 
mefloquine dose was doubled, but her decorticate posture remained unchanged, and her abnormal signalling on 
her head MRI continued to spread. She eventually died in (b) (6)  due to worsening of her malignant lymphoma.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 388 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Additional information was received on 6 Oct 2014.
In the Japanese literature, tacrolimus was administered from July 2011,which is before the company product was 
released.
Therefore the suspect taclolimus was non company product.
The causality between TACROLIMUS Capsules 0.5mg [
Pfizer] and the events was ruled out.
This case is to be closed.