A neurologist spontaneously reported via a Biogen Idec Employee (company field force) that a female patient (age 
unknown) on TYSABRI (unknown dose, unknown route, unknown frequency) for Multiple Sclerosis from unknown 
date to unknown date was hospitalized from an unknown date to an unknown date for severe PML (onset 
unknown).  According to the neurologist, the patient is probably going to die. No testing or treatment was reported.
The event of PML is ongoing. The causality for the event of PML is unknown.  It is unknown if TYSABRI treatment 
is ongoing.  No further information was provided.
Update 21 Sep 2014:  The neurologist provided the following additional information.  The patient was on TYSABRl 
every 5-6 weeks from 17 Dec 2006 to 21 Aug 2014 (dose of 200mg since 05 Jul 2012) (prescribed underdose), for 
a total of 74 infusions.  TYSABRl therapy was permanently discontinued.  The patient tested positive for anti-JCV 
antibodies on two separate occasions (dates not reported).  The patient was diagnosed with MS in 2004.  Previous 
therapies included Betaferon (interferon beta-1b).  Testing included a routine MRI every 6 months (dates and 
results not reported).  The patient first developed symptoms at the end of Jul [2014] and was hospitalized (dates 
unknown).  An MRI during the hospitalization had "findings consistent with PML", and no contrast enhancement 
was seen.  The neurologist stated that the patient's condition was "very bad" and described it as "nearly dead".
Treatment included plasmapheresis (PLEX) and Celsentri (maraviroc).  The neurologist did not have access to the 
CSF JCV PCR test.  The neurologist considered the event related to TYSABRl.
Update 30 Sep 2014: The professor of neurology from the local hospital reported that the patient was admitted on 
(b) (6)  with suspicion of PML. The patient had been suffering from organic psychosyndrome with increasing 
confusion for the last three weeks. Lumbar puncture was performed on (b) (6)  On (b) (6)  the result of
JCV DNA PCR test in CSF was 1,450,000 copies/ml; the result of JCV DNA PCR test in serum was 570 copies/ml 
(performed at the (b) (6) ). On (b) (6)  brain MRI native and with contrast 
medium showed extensive large signal alterations in white matter temporal, parietal, occipital and frontal on the 
right side reaching high up to frontal parafalxial as well as in the white matter temporal and occipital on the left side.
In FLAIR, these lesions presented partly hyperintense, partly hypointense; in T1 scans they were hypointense. 
Similar to previous examination performed on(b) (6)  at the external radiological office, there was spotty 
signal enhancement in FLAIR peri- and supraventricular, partly reaching to corpus callosum as well as in the right 
cerebellar hemisphere considered consistent with known MS. There was no contrast agent enhancement in the 
post-contrast medium scans. No diffusion disturbances in the DWI/ADC scans. It was concluded that there was no 
evidence of florid lesions. No hemorrhage or ischemia was noted. MR angiography of Circulus Willisii performed on
(b) (6)  revealed no stenosis of cerebral arteries. Large, extensive signal alterations in right hemisphere 
consistent with progressive PML was noted. On (b) (6)  brain MRI native and with contrast medium showed 
in comparison with previous examination from (b) (6)  a slight narrowing of lateral ventricles. However, the 
third and the forth ventricles appeared normal. There was no midline shift. Progression of large white matter signal 
alterations (in T2 and FLAIR hyperintense and T1 hypointense) frontal and temporo-parietal on the right side as well
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 392 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
as frontal and temporal in the left hemisphere. Increasing hyperintensity in T2 and FLAIR in the right Pedunculus 
cerebelli as well as in the right cerebellar hemisphere. Defects of the brain parenchyma temporal, frontal and 
cerebellar on the right side. There were diffusion disturbances seen at the rim regions of the defects frontal and 
temporal on the right side. No contrast medium enhancement in these lesions. It was concluded that this was 
progressive PML, with increasing mass effect upon the internal CSF spaces and no evidence of CSF circulatory 
dysfunction. The patient received four cycles of plasmapheresis from (b) (6)  to unknown date. Further 
treatment included cortisone 1 g IV from(b) (6)  to (b) (6) , Celsentri 300 mg PO since (b) (6)  and
Privigen (immune globulin intravenous) 30 g IV from (b) (6)  to (b) (6) . No further information was 
provided.
Update 02 Oct 2014: Biogen Idec considers this case to be confirmed for PML based on CSF result and MRI 
findings.
Update 27 Oct 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool and hospital discharge summary. The patient?s medical history included RRMS since 2003, 
laparoscopic gastric sleeve surgery (7/8) on (b) (6)  abdominoplasty, port implantation (NOS), and 
cholecystectomy. The last TYSABRI infusion for RRMS had been administered on 21 Jul 2014. On (b) (6)
WBC was 7.3 Tsd/mcL (reference range: 4.0-10.0). The reporting physician provided a discharge summary which 
indicated that the patient was admitted via an emergency room to intensive care unit (ICU) on (b) (6)  due to 
suspected PML. Upon admission the patient presented with three weeks' history of increasing confusion. Previously
on the admission day, a brain MRI had revealed alterations consistent with PML. Therapy with Celsentri (maraviroc)
and mirtazapine had been started in the outpatient setting. Neurological examination revealed disorientation in time,
aphasia with repetition, receptive language disorder, naming disorder, apraxis, psychomotor restlessness, but no 
dysarthria. On (b) (6)  ECG did not show any pathological findings. On(b) (6)  and (b) (6)  chest 
X-ray did not show any relevant pathological findings. On(b) (6)  lumbar puncture was done and JCV DNA 
PCR revealed 1,450,000 copies/mL in CSF and was considered high positive. JCV DNA PCR in serum showed 570
copies/mL. On(b) (6)  brain MRI scan with and without contrast medium revealed extensive signal alterations
in the right white matter with contrast enhancement. The finding was considered consistent with PML. In addition, 
there were patchy signal alterations partly reaching corpus callosum, considered consistent with MS. There was no 
evidence of acute inflammatory lesions and no evidence of ischemia or hemorrhage. Elsewhere in the discharge 
summary it was also mentioned that a further brain MRI (date not specified in the text) had revealed progression of 
PML and therefore a planned transfer to rehabilitation center was postponed and a cortisone pulse therapy was 
started for an early IRIS. It is unclear if this comment refers to the MRI scans on (b) (6)  or if another MRI had
been done. Nevertheless, on (b) (6)  a treatment with plasma exchange (PLEX) was started. The patient 
underwent four cycles of PLEX until (b) (6)  After the fourth cycle of PLEX, the patient developed respiratory 
insufficiency for a short time. Patient's condition worsened and she became comatose and had spastic right-side 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 393 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
tetraparesis. The patient was further treated in ICU. On (b) (6)  Prednisolut 1 g IV was administered for five 
days (until (b) (6) ). On (b) (6)  a brain CT showed extensive bilateral hyperdensity in white matter that 
was more accentuated in the right hemisphere. The finding was consistent with PML. On (b) (6)  the patient 
developed fever and had high laboratory parameters for infection. Therapy with tazobac, piperacilline and in further 
course with Meronem (until (b) (6) ) was started for suspected aspiration pneumonia. The infection ceased 
upon therapy. From (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  the patient received Privigen 30 g IV for PML. On (b) (6)
the patient was stable and calm and was transferred to a normal ward. On (b) (6) , brain MRI scan with and 
without contrast medium revealed progression of the signal alterations without contrast enhancement in the white 
matter and especially in the right frontal lobe, in the left cerebrum and in the right cerebellum. The finding was 
consistent with progression of PML. There was increasing mass effect upon the internal CSF spaces but no 
evidence of CSF circulatory dysfunction. In addition there were patchy signal alterations in supra and periventricular
areas, considered consistent with MS. From (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  the patient received Prednisolut 1 g IV. 
On (b) (6)  EEG did not show activity typical for epilepsy.  The patient had been diagnosed (date not 
specified) with IRIS based on clinical symptoms and MRI findings. The patient received corticosteroids post-IRIS. 
From (b) (6)  to(b) (6)  the patient received methylprednisolone 1 g IV (frequency not specified). On(b) (6)  
(b) (6)  EEG was slower and more chaotic as the previous EEG. On(b) (6)  the patient again developed 
pneumonia. On (b) (6)  chest X-ray showed more patchy consolidation in the right basal lobe consistent with 
early phase of infiltrations. Pneumonia was treated with ceftriaxone from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  On(b) (6)  
(b) (6)  MRSA was found in patient's sputum and the patient was transferred to isolation ward for MRSA treatment 
with Octenisan. On(b) (6)  EEG result was worse; the waves were slower and flatter than the previous EEG. 
Based on EEG findings an anticonvulsive therapy with levetiracetam was commenced for symptomatic epilepsy 
(date not specified). The dose was increased later (date and new dose not specified). Due to permanent dysphagia,
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube was inserted on (b) (6)  During the hospitalization, 
hypokalemia was detected and therefore diabetes insipidus was suspected but could not be confirmed. A 
potassium substitution was started for the hypokalemia. The patient also developed a superficial ulcer in right foot 
during the hospitalization which was adequately treated. At some point of time during the hospitalization the patient 
experienced hypertensive crisis and had transaminases increased on Flucanazol. The patient was transferred to 
another hospital on (b) (6)  Currently, the patient is alive and is in a rehabilitation facility. The patient has not 
recovered from PML. The outcome of the event of IRIS was not provided. Causality for the events was assessed as
related to TYSABRI.
Update 13 Apr 2015: Additional information was provided by the neurologist.  The patient passed away on unknown
date. No further details provided.
Update 05 May 2015: Additional information was provided by the neurologist.  The patient's father had called and 
reported that the patient had died on (b) (6)  The neurologist had no other information about the cause of 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 394 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
death, whether the patient died at home, or whether the patient had been transferred to the rehabilitation facility 
after her discharge from the hospital on (b) (6)  Additional information was provided on the patient's medical 
history and the course of the event: MS was diagnosed in Mar 2004, when the patient first visited the neurologist 
due to migraine, since this time she had been in the care of the neurologist. Previous therapies included Betaferon 
(interferon beta-1b) and mitoxantron because of single but intense MS relapse and fatigue syndrome.   In 2007 
(discrepant date), the patient switched to TYSABRI; in total the patient had received 75 infusions (discrepant 
information; previously reported as 74 infusions). In Jul 2014, the patient's mother had called the neurologist and 
reported that the patient was confused; these symptoms were interpreted as prolonged side effects due to 
cortisone treatment. In (b) (6)  the patient presented with intense organic brain syndrome; the neurologist 
initiated Celsentri (maraviroc) and transferred the patient to hospital. Prior to her PML disease, the patient had been
able to work full-time.