The following is a revised narrative incorporating follow-up information received on 13-Oct-2014 which included: 
indication for metformin and outcome of headache and tic.
This spontaneous case was reported by the nurse practitioner (reference number: PPD 1-933Z52).
A 20-year-old Caucasian female patient received Entyvio 300 mg intravenous infusion on 14-Jul-2014, for 
ulcerative colitis. The patient received second and third dose of Entyvio infusion on 28-Jul-2014 and 25-Aug-2014 
respectively. The patient was diagnosed with ulcerative colitis at the age eight (approximately in 2008). The patient 
did not experience any side effects after having received first two Entyvio infusions. The patient co-suspect 
medications included oral Benadryl (dose and frequency: unknown) initiated on an unknown date for an unknown 
indication and Fexofenadine tablet (route, dose, frequency: unknown) initiated on 31-Dec-2013 for an unknown 
indication.
The relevant history included asthma, polycystic ovarian syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, non-smoker, abstains 
from alcohol, allergic rhinitis, clostridium difficile colitis, drug induced hepatitis, myopathy, gastroesophageal reflux 
disease (GERD) and Nausea. 
Allergies were reported to mercaptopurine tabs, Singulair tabs and omeprazole tabs. 
Prior therapy for ulcerative colitis included Remicade, Uceris, Lialda and 6-MP (mercaptopurine). 
The concomitant medications of the patient included Ondansetron, Lialda, Align, Calcium, Ferrous sulphate, 
Fexofenadine, metformin, Multivitamin, Nexium, Ortho tri-cyclen, Spironolactone and Benadryl. It was confirmed 
that the indication of use of metformin was polycystic ovarian syndrome and not for diabetes.
It was reported that the patient was overall having a positive response to Entyvio therapy. 
On approximately 03-Sep-2014, the patient experienced facial tics on the left cheek area. There was no numbness,
tingling, paralysis, tremors, aura, parenthesis, numbness, slurred speech, or difficulty with concentration or thinking.
The patient could not feel it and was unaware of when it was occurring. The movements were fasciculation-like in 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 405 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
nature. The duration of episodes was unclear, but the patient's mother noticed that it had gone on intermittently for 
several minutes.  The reporter felt that in the absence of alarming symptoms such as numbness, tingling, paralysis 
or tremors, the facial tic was most likely to be of benign origin. The reporter had not personally observed the 
reported facial tic and described the patient as super anxious and thought anxiety was a factor in the reported tic.
Patient reported intermittent Diarrhea, up to 5-6 BM's, followed by normal formed stools for next day or two. Patient 
reported intermittent sharp right lower quadrant pains that occurred every few days and lasting until patient had a 
bowel movement.
On an unknown date, the patient experienced headaches following Entyvio dose and the headache was "mild and 
tolerated". The patient was encouraged to take pretreatment Tylenol and Tylenol 6 hours later to control the 
headache.
On 10-Sep-2014, the patient underwent stratify John Cunningham (JC) virus antibody test which was positive, 
indicating that the patient has been exposed to JCV at an undetermined time.  The reporter stated that the JC virus 
antibody test was not ordered due to clinical concern but because of awareness of interest in JCV antibody status. 
On 10-sep-2014, the patient lab test included alanine aminotransferase was 27 u/l, anion gap was 14 mmol/l, 
aspartate aminotransferase was 25 u/l, basophil percentage was 0.4 %, blood albumin was 4.0 g/dl, blood alkaline 
phosphatase was 82 u/l, total bilirubin was 9.2 mg/dl, chloride was 103 mmol/l, creatinine was 0.63, glucose was 75
mg/dl, potassium was 4.1 mmol/l,blood sodium was 140 mmol/l, blood urea was 11 mg/dl, carbon dioxide total was 
23, eosinophil percentage was 3%,glomerular filtration rate was >90, granulocyte percentage was 53.5, granulocyte
count was 0.3, haematocrit was 37.4%, hemoglobin was 11.6 g/dl, lymphocyte percentage was 35.9%, mean cell 
haemoglobin was 25.5,mean cell haemoglobin concentration was 31 g/dl, mean cell volume was 82.2 fl, mean 
platelet volume was  9.7 fl,monocyte percentage was 6.9 %,absolute neutrophil count was 6.0 thousand/mm3, 
platelet count was 530 thousand/mm3, total protein was 7 g/dl, red blood cell count was 4.55 million/mm3, red cell 
distribution width was 14 %, white blood cell count was 11.2 thousand/mm3, hemoglobin was 11.6 g/dl, Red blood 
cell count was 4.55 million/mm3, SED rate was 31 mm/hr and white blood cell count was 11.2 thousand/mm3.
On 26-Jun-2014, the patient underwent Tuberculosis screening which was negative.  In 1994 she underwent 
screening for Hepatitis B which was negative and  she is immune by vaccination. 
On 10-Sep-2014, a neurological exam was performed which included testing of cranial nerves and muscle strength,
and there were "no focal findings".  The reporter confirmed that no neuroimaging was performed as a result of the 
reported adverse events. The patient was never treated with Natalizumab or Rituximab. The patient was doing well 
clinically. The reporter stated that the patient had not started any new medication recently.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 406 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The patient was not diagnosed with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
At the time of report, the therapy with Entyvio was continued.  The patient was recovered from facial tics and 
headache.
The event of headache was assessed as related to Entyvio. Causality for the event of tic was reported as unknown;
however it was mentioned that the event might be a manifestation of stress from school or related to co-suspect 
medication (Benadryl and Fexofenadine). 
No additional information is expected.
Company comment: Based on the available information, a causal relationship between the event of JC virus test 
positive and drug infusion cannot be established.  The event of JC virus test positive is more likely related to the 
background rate of JC virus exposure.  Based on the available information, a causal relationship between the event
of tic and drug administration cannot be confirmed.   The event of tic was reported as most likely of benign origin.
The company concurs with the reporter's causality as related between the event of headache and vedolizumab.