The below information is a case summary from 18 August 2014 to 16 October 2014. Case reference number 
2014BI083211 is a clinical trial case report from Germany in (b) (6)
 This case involved a 54 year-old female subject ((b) (6) ). The subject 
was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) in 2005.  The subject?s concomitant illness included hypertension and 
concomitant medications included ramipril, hydrochlorothiazide (HCT), baclofen, and bisoprolol. The subject's 
medical history, allergy history, and height and weight were not reported. The subject had previously been enrolled 
and completed the (b) (6)  study and then enrolled in (b) (6)  She received first dose of 
BG00012 (PO, BID or TID (blinded)) in the current protocol on 12 February 2010, with the last dose prior to the 
event administered on 18 August 2014. 
The subject had no Tysabri (natalizumab), Gilenya (fingolimod), or immunosuppressive treatments in the past. The 
subject was diagnosed with RRMS in 1996 and was previously treated with Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) from 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 439 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
December 2005 to 01 January 2008. In mid?2008, the subject experienced several MS relapses and significant 
progress of MS was seen on MRI. The subject's last cortisone treatment was 5 years ago.  The subject had no 
history of autoimmune disorder and had no clinically relevant comorbidities besides hypertension. She tested HIV 
negative on 30 Sep 2014 and serum anti-JCV antibody positive in Sep 2014. A review of the laboratory tests 
showed lymphopenia during the last 3 years and was considered not clinically significant by the investigator. The 
subject's course of MS was stable until the summer of 2014 with the first symptoms of deterioration approximately 
on 15 July 2014. 
On 11 August 2014, the subject was diagnosed with an MS relapse and treated with IV methylprednisolone for 3 
days. On (b) (6)  the subject was hospitalized due to worsening of MS relapse The symptoms had started 
2 weeks prior to admission and comprised of severe gait disorder, speech disorder and coordination disturbance 
affecting her left arm.  Neurological examination on admission ((b) (6) ) found an EDSS 5.0. Cranial 
nerves were without findings. Deviation in arm extension test on the left, down?drift in legs extension test on both 
sides, spastic hypertonia of both legs more pronounced on the left, Babinski negative on both sides, ataxic pointing 
test on the left, bradydiadochokinesia on the left, no aphasia, moderate dysarthria, uncertain ataxic stance and gait.
On (b) (6)  a brain and cervical spine MRI with contrast agent (no previous examination for comparison) 
found significant dilatation of inner and outer cerebrospinal fluid spaces due to generalized volume reduction 
supra? and infratentorial. In T2w and FLAIR ? hyperintense spotty and finger?shaped confluent lesions associated 
with corpus callosum in the peri? and supraventricular white matter on both sides more pronounced on the left. 
Lesions in corona radiata and in capsula interna on both sides. In T2w ? spotty hyperintense lesions with 
unsharp?edged contours also in the left cerebellar hemisphere adjacent to superior cerebellar peduncle, in 
mesencephalon, in pons and in medulla. No diffusion disturbances seen in DWI. No contrast enhancement, no 
evidence of floridity. Cervical spine: There were hyperintense spotty signal changes intramedullary centrally in the 
whole cervical myelon seen in T2w. No contrast enhancement. In conclusion, findings were consistent with MS 
including distinct supra? and infratentorial lesion load and multiple demyelination lesions also in the cervical spine 
(maximum C5 centrally and more pronounced on the right).
 Additional treatment included prednisolone 2000 mg IV QD from (b) (6)  until (b) (6) . The subject
decided to stop study medication on (b) (6)  On (b) (6)  the subject was discharged with only
slight improvement and admitted to a rehabilitation clinic. The subject was still suffering from persisting severe gait 
disorder, weakness in left arm and difficulties in speaking. On 12 September 2014, a walking test was performed 
and the subject was able to walk 7.62m during 35 seconds. The subject was commenced on Fampyra 
(dalfampridine) 10 mg BID on the same day. During the hospitalization, the subject presented severe dizziness 
accompanied by horizontal nystagmus with rotatory component when looking to the right (was not seen on 
admission). On an unspecified date, the subject was unable to walk any longer and physiotherapy was discontinued
due to severe dizziness. On (b) (6)  the subject was re?admitted to the university hospital due to 
deterioration of her clinical condition and suspicion of a new MS relapse; her EDSS on admission was 7.0. She was
treated with 1g prednisolone IV QD from(b)  to (b) (6)(6) , followed by plasmapheresis. On an unspecified date in
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 440 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(b) (6)  the subject tested positive for JCV antibodies.
 On (b) (6)  a brain MRI with contrast agent was performed and compared with the previous 
examination from (b) (6)  there were known signal enhancements in the corpus callosum and small 
defects in radiatio of corpus callosum. These lesions remained unchanged. The known signal enhancement in left 
cerebellar peduncle increased. Significant increasing of signal changes in the pons, more pronounced on the left. 
Newly occurred signal enhancements cerebellar on the right side reaching up to the right cerebellar peduncle. No 
BBB (blood brain barrier) disturbance. There was less pronounced diffusion disturbance seen in the area of right 
cerebellar lesions reaching up to the right cerebellar peduncle. No contrast enhancement. In conclusion, newly 
occurred distinct signal alterations in the pons more pronounced on the left and in the cerebellum on both sides 
reaching up to right cerebellar peduncle and was considered to be most probably consistent with MS.
On(b) (6)  a brain MRI with contrast agent found a different image impression due to considerable 
motion artefacts. Compared with the previous examination from (b) (6)  especially in T2w sequences 
known signal alterations in the pons and in the cerebellum significantly increased accompanied by distinct diffusion 
disturbance and corresponding signal attenuation in T1w. Ascending signal changes up to mesencephalon. 
Compared to previous examination, there was also increasing diffusion disturbance parietal on the left and newly 
occurred diffusion disturbance occipital with progressing edema?signal there. No contrast enhancement. In 
conclusion, there was significant progress especially in the pons and in the cerebellum as well as subcortical 
occipital and parietal on the left side. On (b) (6)  (15:26) Borrellia IgG and Borrelia IgM were negative. JC 
Virus DNA (liquor) positive ca. (circa) 10,000 geq/mL. On an unspecified date in (b) (6)  the liquor sample 
from (b) (6)  was re-tested for JC Virus DNA and results were positive ca. 2,500 geq/mL. The subject's 
condition worsened steadily over the last days despite 5 courses of plasmapharesis for a supposed MS relapse. On
(b) (6)  the investigator reported that the CSF (LP on (b) (6) ) showed a high JCV DNA level 
(10,000 geq/mL) and a final diagnosis of PML was made on an unspecified date. The subject was quadriplegic, 
mutistic, "nearly locked-in", developed aspiration pneumonia due to massive dysphagia and died on (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  at 05:00. The investigator reported the primary cause of death was pneumonia as the subject had developed 
aspiration pneumonia due to massive dysphagia.  Life sustaining measures were ended on the request of the 
family and an autopsy was refused. The events of PML and pneumonia were assessed to be causally related to 
study medication.
Results of WBC, lymphocyte testing, and other relevant lab tests performed are included in the confirmatory test 
and laboratory tests section.
 Update 21 October 2014 and 22 October 2014 : Additional information received from the investigator reported that 
results of a JCV DNA PCR performed on (b) (6)  revealed 2430K/mL. The patient did not receive any MS 
therapy from 1996 to 2005 and Fampyra was administered from (b) (6)  to (b) (6) . Causality 
of the events pneumonia and PML were assessed to be not related to Fampyra. It was unknown why there was a 
discrepancy for the CSF JCV PCR of 10,000 copies/mL and 2,500 copies/mL and it was unknown why the Hepatitis
B virus surface antigen was tested twice with discrepant results.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 441 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 03 November 2014: Additional information received from the investigator in the form of an epicrisis revealed
that on(b) (6)  the patient was re-transferred from the rehabilitation facility to the primary neurologic hospital 
due to further deterioration of her health condition. The patient had experienced severe deterioration with dysarthria
and gaze-evoked nystagmus around (b) (6) . Subsequently, the patient again had been treated with 
prednisolone 2g per day starting on (b) (6)  and continuing until the transfer on (b) (6) . Neurological 
examination on admission found gaze-evoked nystagmus more pronounced to the left as to the right with horizontal
gaze paresis, distinct leg spasticity more pronounced on the left side, proximal paresis of arms and legs bilaterally, 
Babinski sign positive on both sides, significant ataxia of arms and legs seen in pointing test, severe dysarthria, 
dysphagia with choking. The patient was alert, but depressed. On (b) (6)  thoracic x-ray found no evidence of
pneumothorax, mediastinum in midline position, no pulmonary venous congestion, no pleural effusion, no confluent 
shadows or suspect coin lesions. On (b) (6)  thoracic x-ray found no pneumothorax, no infiltrate, no 
congestion, and no pleural effusion. On (b) (6)  thoracic x-ray found no evidence of pneumothorax. Thoracic 
and abdominal computed tomography: The most striking finding was a wedge-shaped hypodense lesion at the 
lower pole of the right kidney. Compared with a cyst the lesion appeared to be too dense and inhomogeneous. The 
wedge-shaped character could lead to the suspicion of an infarct, but a tumor was nevertheless possible. CSF 
testing on an unknown date revealed clear, 1 cell/mcl, lactate 1.7 mmol/l, ACE less than2 U/l, quotient albumin 9.7, 
intrathecal IgG-synthesis of 1.5 mg/l, no intrathecal synthesis of IgA of IgM, 6 isolated positive oligoclonal IgG 
bands, JCV DNA positive with 2,500 Geq/ml, tau-protein slightly increased with 550 pg/ml (normal range less than 
450), 14-3-3 protein normal with 5,997 AU/ml (normal range less than 20,000), onconeural antibodies negative.
Cranial MRI showed newly occurred extensive signal changes in the pontine and cerebellar regions both sides. In 
spite of this therapy the patient?s condition continued to deteriorate and required the insertion of a PEG due to 
progressive dysphagia. A new MRI showed further enlargement of the T2 hyperintense lesions in the infratentorial 
region. Subsequently, an additional lumbar puncture was performed, also to evaluate the possibility of progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy, because contrast enhancing lesions could still not be identified. In the following 
days the patient developed tetraplegia with complete paresis of the bulbar muscles. Only vertical and slightly also 
horizontal eye movement was possible. Due to aspiration the patient developed bronchopneumonia with purulent 
secretion. Considering the very poor prognosis and after consultation with the patient?s husband the physicians 
stopped the initially started antibiotic treatment. The patient died in the morning of (b) (6)  The investigator 
reported that the patient's development of mild, clinically non-significant lymphopenia with lymphocyte values 
around 0.4/nl seemed to be a risk factor for the development of PML under treatment with dimethyl fumarate.
ASE:
A search of the BG00012 global safety database on 15 October 2014 under the Infections and infestations and 
Nervous system disorders SOC revealed 24 cases of Interest (including current), 1 case of Bronchopulmonary 
aspergillosis (considered unrelated by the investigator), 1 case of Oesophageal candidiasis (considered as possible
by the investigator), 1 case of Pulmonary tuberculoma (considered unrelated by the investigator), 1 case of 
Tuberculosis gastrointestinal (considered as related by the investigator but subject was on Placebo) 1 case of 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 442 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Bronchopneumonia (considered unlikely),  1 case of Pneumonia bacterial (considered  unrelated), 1 case of 
Respiratory tract infection (considered unlikely), 1 case of tracheitis (considered  unrelated), 2 cases of 
Nasopharyngitis (considered unlikely & unrelated), 2 cases of Upper respiratory tract infection ( considered as 
possible & unrelated) and 11 cases of Pneumonia ( 4 unrelated, 3 unlikely, 3 possible and the current one related) 
and the current case of Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (considered related by the investigator).
In the case of Oesophageal candidiasis, a 32 yr old female from India with concomitant illness of malaria 
experienced fever and vomiting, loss of appetite, nausea, abdominal pain and generalized weakness about 24 days
after starting open label BG00012 in an extension study and after 24 months of blinded study treatment (PO, BID, 
unknown dose. Anti-malaria treatment with chloroquine was given for 5 days with some improvement, but with 
continuation of symptom subject was subsequently hospitalized for evaluation. An Upper Gastrointestinal 
endoscopy showed monilial esophagitis. Study drug was continued.
Case of Tuberculosis gastrointestinal was in 23 year old male subject from India and was on Placebo.
In the possibly related cases of pneumonia, one was with a subject who had fever, chills and dyspnea and was 
hospitalized for pneumonia and sepsis 17 months after start of study drug. The subject received IV and oral 
antibiotics. The other one was in a subject who was hospitalized for left lower lobe pneumonia 18 months after start
of study drug. The subject has asthma and was a former smoker. The subject received IV antibiotics and was 
discharged on oral antibiotics the next day.  The last one was in a 50 yr. old male subject was hospitalized with 
general weakness, fever and cough. Chest X-ray performed revealed pneumonia. In all the cases the drug was 
either continued or temporarily discontinued and restarted. Events resolved or were recovering. In the case of 
Upper respiratory tract infection, considered as possible, a 52 year old female was hospitalized for presumed 
common flu with fever and lymphopenia after 24 months of blinded treatment and 5 months of study drug in an 
extension study. The subject responded to treatment with Augmentin. Study drug which was temporarily 
discontinued and restarted later. Events resolved.
In this case a 54 year-old female subject who has been on the study drug for approximately 4 ? years was 
hospitalized in (b) (6)  with a diagnosis of MS relapse which was treated with corticosteroids. The subject was 
discharged to rehabilitation with slight improvement, however continued to demonstrate gait disorder, weakness of 
left half of the body, and difficulties in speaking. Study medication was stopped on (b) (6) , per subject?s 
request. Subject was re-hospitalized on (b) (6)  due to another episode of MS relapse, without fully 
recovering from the first relapse. The subject received an additional course of corticosteroids and plasmapheresis x
5. However, the subject?s condition continued to worsen despite these measures. MRI of the brain showed a T2 
hyperintense signal in a significant portion of the pons without enhancement that extended to the peduncles and 
cerebellum. JCV DNA analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid was positive (10000 GEq/mL) and subject was diagnosed 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 443 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
with PML. The subject subsequently died of aspiration pneumonia secondary to dysphagia, after life sustaining 
measures were withdrawn per family request. The subject was noted to have a history of severe, prolonged 
lymphopenia characterized by an absolute lymphocyte count of predominantly <500 cells/?l for 3.5 years. Brain 
biopsy was declined by next of kin. Further analysis of CSF has been requested. The investigator considered the 
PML and Pneumonia related to study drug.
To date, BG00012 has been given to (b) (4)  subjects in clinical trials. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
and Pneumonia are unexpected per the Investigators? Brochure. In this case, the presence of severe, prolonged 
lymphopenia characterized by an absolute lymphocyte count of predominantly <500 cells/?l for 3.5 years is 
considered to have potentially played a contributory role in the emergence of PML. There are no other confirmed 
reports of opportunistic infections including PML in patients treated with BG00012. Lymphopenia is a known 
adverse event for BG00012. Aspiration pneumonia is attributed to dysphagia and was assessed as the most 
proximal cause of death. The overall benefit-risk of BG00012 remains favorable and unchanged. We will continue 
to diligently monitor and provide any relevant updates. Attempts to obtain additional information continue.
Company Comment: Contribution of investigational product to the reported events cannot be ruled out. 
16 October 2014:  Biogen Idec considers this case to be a confirmed case of PML based on clinical presentation, 
radiologic evidence and positive CSF for JCV DNA.