AER 1476085 is a spontaneous case, received on 15/Oct/2014 from a physician and concerns a 62 year old female
patient who died due to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) while being treated with rituximab 
(Mabthera).
No medical history, concurrent conditions or past drugs were reported. Her brain MRI was not done. Patient had no 
history of immunodeficiency, chronic viral infection, bone marrow or solid bone transplant, herpes simplex, herpes 
zoster, history of opportunistic infection, CMV pneumocystic Carinii pneumonia. She had CNS pathology possibility 
of CNS lymphoma. Her concomitant medication included prednisone, hydroxyrubicin, vincristine and 
cyclophosphamide (6 cycles).
In 2008, the patient started rituximab (therapy details not provided) for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma without CNS 
involvement (dose and frequency not reported). In 2010, she again started rituximab. In 2011, she had relapse of 
diffuse large cell lymphoma, so restarted rituximab. In 2013, the therapy with rituximab was discontinued.  Later, 
she was admitted due to progressive dysarthria and right-sided spastic hemiparesis. Her neurological symptoms 
started half a year ago and brain MRI showed possible progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. On 
examination, she was alert, very slow but without major cognitive impairment. She had marked dysarthria with 
many incomprehensible words. She had bilateral rigidity, spasticity and paresis of upper limbs, pronounced on the 
right. All tendon reflexes on upper and lower limbs were brisk, pronounced on the right. Plantar reflex was clearly 
positive on the right. She was unable to walk. Her (john cunningham virus) JCV test was negative. The physician 
confirmed that virus test was performed but should check the method. It was unknown whether the patient had a 
stored serum sample that was drawn with in previous 5 years of event onset. Later, she also developed pneumonia.
Subsequently, patient died due to PML. Autopsy was performed. The physician confirmed suspect on PML. On 
(b) (6)  autopsy report received which revealed she had large B-cell lymphoma inguinal, her clinical diagnosis
revealed pneumonia, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, relapse of lymphoma and her neuro pathological
section finding revealed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, opportunistic infection with John Cunningham 
virus (JCV) and BK Virus.
The physician did not provide the causality of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy with rituximab.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 24/Nov/2014, following information has been added to the case: Autopsy 
report was received on 24/Nov/2014, narrative updated.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 452 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information