PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY
(AUSTRIA)
The events documented in this report were identified on 07/Oct/2014 in the published scientific literature. 
Specifically: Smolle E. et All. In Vivo 2014, 28: 941-948
The authors reported a case history of a 63 years old male patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (50 years old 
when CLL diagnosis was made in 1996). On 1999 the patient received fludarabine for five treatment cycles, 
followed by fludarabine plus rituxirnab for three treatment cycles. 
His complete blood cell count normalized following therapy. However by Dec2001 he required treatment again 
because of a rising white cell count, splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy. At that time, he received fludarabine, 
cyclophosphamide and rituximab (FCR) for four treatment cycles , complicated by autoimmune hemolytic anemia. 
His CLL responded to therapy but by Jan2006 he required therapy again and was treated with oral fludarabine, 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 472 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
cyclophosphamide and rituximab for three treatment cycles without response and then with intravenous FCR for 
three treatment cycles ending in July 2006 and resulting in a nodular partial response. In 2007 CLL progressed and 
he received a two week course of lenalidomide that was interrupted when he developed weakness of the right 
upper extremity evolving to paralysis, attributed to PML based on clinical and MRI findings; cerebrospinal fluid viral 
studies were initially non diagnostic. Later in 2007, JCV (JC POLYOMAVIRUS) was detected in the cerebrospinal 
fluid, assuring the diagnosis of PML. The MRl showed demyelinated foci. In Sep2007, he received a five day course
of cytarabine for the treatment of PML. In October through Nov2007, he developed refractory focal motor seizures 
and was treated with high-dose cytarabine, valproic acid, levetiracetam and clonazepam. In Dec2007, he received 
investigational natural killer cell therapy. In Feb2008, he was treated with infusions of CD3/CD28 ex vivo carried out
stimulated autologous T cells on a compassionate use protocol at the (b) (6)  in an attempt to 
reverse his therapy related immunodeficiency and to enhance antiviral immunity. He also received intravenous 
immunoglobulin. In May and Jun2008, he received investigational JCV peptide pulsed dendritic cell vaccinations 
with granulocyte monocyte colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Although neurologically stable at this point, he 
developed severe anemia with brisk hemolysis and symptomatic massive splenomegaly and underwent 
splenectomy in Jul2008. Other treatment modalities for PML include mirtazapine and cyproheptadine, 5 
hydroxytryptarnine 2A (5HT2A) serotonin blockers. In(b) (6) , the patient underwent human leukocyte antigen 
matched sibling allogeneic stem cell transplantion following a non myeloablative preparative regimen that included 
fludarabine, melphalan and total body irradiation.The donor of bone marrow was the patient sister.
Shortly after transplantation, the patient suffered from intercurrent sepsis caused by Pseudomonas sp ., then 
contracted viral pneumonia and, subsequently, gastrointestinal clostridial infection. About three months post 
transplantation, following reduction of immunosuppression and a donor lymphocyte infusion, the patient developed 
gastrointestinal involvement by graft versus host disease, confirmed by biopsy of large intestine. Graft versus host 
disease later became manifest in the patient skin. About five months post transplantation, after an episode of 
enterococcal cystitis treated with Augmentin, JCV disease progressed rapidly. This decline happened two years 
after the first diagnosis of JCV infection. The patient developed tetraparesis, rapidly lost vigilance, and died from 
respiratory and septic complications due to aspiration pneumonia.
The reporter did considered the PML as therapy (Revlimid) induced.
The company assessed the causal relationship between progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and Revlimid 
(possible)