This registry prospective baby case report from other health care profession was received by UCB on 15-Oct-2014. 
This case concerns a fetus (baby) from the United States of America. The babys mother was enrolled in (b) (6)  
Mother s medical history included gestational diabetes, anemia, depression, anxiety, Crohn s disease, gall bladder 
removed due to gall stones, smoker, coffee intake, sinus infection and respiratory infection. The mother had 
glucose tolerance test performed on 20-Nov-2013 was abnormal.
Mother s concomitant medications included prenatal Vitamins (ascorbic acid, biotin, minerals nos, nicotinic acid, 
retinol, tocopherol, vitamin b nos, vitamin d nos) , DHA (docosahexaenoic acid), prednisone, Prozac (fluoxetine 
hydrochloride), Prevacid (lansoprazole), Novolog (insulin aspart), Lantus (insulin glargine), diphtheria tetanus 
pertussis vaccine and Tylenol (paracetamol). The baby was exposed to these drugs transplacentaly.
From 01-Nov-2013, the mother received Cimzia (certolizumab pegol) at 400 mg, every 30 days via subcutaneous 
for Crohn s disease. Baby was exposed to the drug via transplacental route from unspecified date.
On (b) (6)  the baby was born, with 3.589 kg.
On (b) (6)  the baby was hospitalized in PICU due to bacterial meningitis (onset: (b) (6) ) till (b) (6)
 The baby was sent home with pic line for 4 days. Baby also diagnosed with pelvic kidney using fetal 
ultrasound and possible double uterus was being followed by urologist.
At the time of report, the outcome for the events bacterial meningitis, pelvic kidney and double uterus was 
unknown.
Follow-up information was received from health care professional by UCB on 01-Apr-2015.
Based on the events onset of pelvic kidney and possible double uterus, age group of the baby had changed to 
Fetus (previously reported as infant- 7 weeks).
Glucose tolerance test for baby s mother was performed on 29-Nov-2013 (previously reported as 20-Nov-2013) 
and result was abnormal.
Onset date was captured as 18-Apr-2014 for the events pelvic kidney and possible double uterus.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 21 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Fetal ultrasound performed date was captured as 18-Apr-2014 (previously unknown), for diagnosis of pelvic kidney 
and possible double uterus.
As per the maternal report, mother s gastroenterologist suggested that her child s pelvic kidney malformation might 
be attributed to her prenatal exposure to certolizumab pegol.
Follow-up information was received by healthcare professional by UCB on 11-Feb-2016.
The relevant medical history of mother included human papilloma virus (HPV), obsessive-compulsive disorder 
(OCD) and ovarian cyst.
On 01-Sep-2013 (previously reported as 01-Nov-2013), the mother took first dose of certolizumab pegol at a dose 
of 400 mg monthly until 01-Mar-2014. From 01-May-2014, mother restarted certolizumab pegol at 400 mg monthly. 
The mother was administred the last dose of certolizumab pegol on 01-Aug-2014.
The baby birth weight was 3592g (previously reported as 3589g).
On (b) (6)  upon the medical records the baby was diagnosed with unilateral absence of the kidney (right), 
didelphys uterus and pseudomonas infection requiring hospitalization due to solitary kidney and risk for renal 
failure. The child was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  for pseudomonas infection and bacterial 
meningitis. Sent home with PIC line for 4 days antibioics had been started prior to spinal culture for meningitis. 
There was no attribution of the use of certolizumab pegol to the malformations in the baby that was stated in 
gastroenterology record.
At the time of this report, outcome of unilateral absence of the kidney (right), didelphys uterus and pseudomonas 
infection was unknown.
The reporting physician did not provide causality for the events unilateral absence of the kidney (right), didelphys 
uterus and pseudomonas infection to the treatment with certolizumab pegol.