AER 1476771, is a spontaneous case received on 17/Oct/2014, from a physician and concerns a 34 year old male 
patient who developed right hand difficulties, sensory changes lower extremity, suspecting progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy, upper right extremity weakness, lower right extremity sensory numbness, brain lesion and 
body hypometabolic while being treated with rituximab (Rituxan).
The patient's concomitant medications included doxycycline. Past drugs included rituximab with an alkylating agent.
Medical history or concurrent conditions were not reported. No history of drug, alcohol abuse and no history of 
smoking. No family history of any major illness. The patient has no known allergies.
In  2012, the patient started therapy with rituximab infusion (dose, route and frequency was not provided) for 
follicular lymphoma. In Jun/ 2014, the pateint received the last infusion. In (b) (6)  the patient developed right 
hand difficulties with mild weakness in right hand and sensory changes lower extremity which led to hospitalisation. 
It was reported that, the pateint underwent computed tomography (CT scan) and MRI (nuclear magnetic resonance
imaging) of brain which showed unusual report. He had a PET scan (positron emission tomography ) after that and 
result reported as lesion which the physician diagnosed as suspecting PML (progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy). On (b) (6)  the patient developed upper  right extremity weakness, lower right 
extremity sensory numbness. On the same day, patient had a MRI and showed brain lesion and body hypo 
metabolic. It was reported that the lesions wasn't taking up other places in the body and did not show spreading. 
The patient had a PET scan on the brain and body and the results showed the body was hypometabolic.
At the time of report, the outcome of  right hand difficulties, weakness in right hand, sensory changes lower 
extremity, suspecting progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, upper right extremity weakness, lower right 
extremity sensory numbness, brain lesion and body hypo metabolic was persisting.
The physician did not assess the causality of  right hand difficulties, weakness in right hand, sensory changes lower
extremity, suspecting progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, upper right extremity weakness, lower right 
extremity sensory numbness, brain lesion and body hypo metabolic with rituximab.
No further information was provided.