Initial information regarding this clinically sponsored solicited serious case from United States was received from a 
non-healthcare professional (patient) on 21-Oct-2014 via a patient support program involving teriflunomide:
This case involves an adult female patient of unspecified age who experienced appendicitis, abnormal GYN issues 
and fatigue unknown duration after, laparoscopic cholecystectomy 1.1 years after, was sick with head cold, some 
lung congestion, fevers 1.2 years after and MRI had shown numerous enlargements and lesions on spine and Jc 
virus test positive unknown duration after starting teriflunomide (Aubagio).
No relevant medical history, concurrent conditions or concomitant medications were reported. The past drug 
included glatiramer acetate (Copaxone) and interferon beta-1A /01697201/ (Avonex) for MS. The patient reported 
that Avonex efficacy had worn off and it caused more problems than good.
On 01-Sep-2013, the patient started treatment with oral teriflunomide at a dose of 14 mg daily for multiple sclerosis 
(lot/batch number and expiration date not provided). 
She mentioned that she felt her fatigue (onset date: Sep-2013, latency: unspecified) has remained about the same 
since starting on teriflunomide.
Unknown duration after starting teriflunomide, on an unspecified date, the patient experienced appendicitis. It was 
reported that the patient was in the hospital awaiting surgery for appendicitis. It was also stated that the patient 
received her recent shipment.  Patient reported she had a laparoscopic cholecystectomy done on (b) (6)
(latency: 1.1 year). Feels she was recovering well. Her surgeon discovered some "abnormal GYN issues" during 
her surgery (unknown latency). Has been referred to gynecologist for further review. Patient reported that she was 
sick last week (Nov-2014; latency: 1.2 year) with head cold/some lung congestion/fevers (onset: Nov-2014, latency:
1.2 year). She feels she was improving. She mentioned her HCP had given her a "standing order for antibiotics" if 
she needs them but has not felt she needed to use. The patient mentioned recent "MRI had shown numerous 
enlargements and lesions on spine (onset date and latency period: unknown). The patient's physician had stopped 
teriflunomide (on 20-Aug-2015) and the patient will have her first Tysabri infusion next week. The patient was told 
she was JC positive (onset date and latency period: unknown) but the physician felt benefits would outweigh the 
risks.
Action taken: no action taken. Teriflunomide was ongoing
Outcome of the event appendicitis, JC test positive, CNS lesionabnormal GYN issues was unknown, some lung 
congestion, sick, head cold and fevers was recovering, fatigue was not recovered. 
Reporter's causality: not reported
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 522 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Company causality: Not associated to CNS lesion and JC test positive; associated for all other events
Seriousness criterion: The event of appendicitis was medically significant and laparoscopic cholecystectomy led to 
hospitalization.
Additional information received on 29-Oct-2014: action taken and therapy details updated, events added: 
cholecystectomy and GYN examination abnormal.
Additional information was received on 05-Jan-2015 from the patient via MS one to one patient support program:
-Added new events of lung congestion, fatigue, sickness, head cold and fever 
-Updated therapy details of past drug glatiramer acetate
-Added the age group of the patient. 
-Updated the clinical course
-Text amended accordingly
Additional information was received on 21-Aug-2015 from the patient via MS one to one patient support program:
Additional events of MRI had shown numerous enlargements and lesions on spine and JC virus test positive were 
reported, past MS therapy added.