Medically Significant
A neurologist reported via a TOUCH Prescribing Program Form that a male patient, on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) 
for Multiple Sclerosis from 28 Aug 2014 to 25 Sep 2014, and enrolled in a Biogen Idec sponsored marketing 
program of Monitored Therapy, experienced an opportunistic infection (onset unknown). Per the TOUCH program 
database, the patient was diagnosed with MS in May 2012, and prior MS therapy included Rebif (interferon beta-1a)
from Jul 2014 to unknown date; no prior history of immunosuppresant therapy. JCV antibody status is unknown. 
Testing and outcome for the event of opportunistic infection are unknown. Causality was not assessed. At the time 
of this report, the TOUCH database indicated that the patient received a total of 2 infusions of TYSABRI from 28 
Aug 2014 to 25 Sep 2014. TYSABRI therapy was discontinued.
Update 27 Oct 2014: An outbound phone call to the neurologist's office revealed the following addtional information.
An office assistant reported on behalf of the neurologist that the patient received only 3 doses (discrepant from 
TOUCH database which indicates total of 2 infusions) of TYSABRI and the patient deteriorated rapidly within 3 
months with blindness, and difficulty in walking. The opportunistic infection reported on the TOUCH form was 
clarified to be suspect PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy). The patient was referred for brain 
biopsy. The neurologist has not yet received any reports but the patient's father called and informed the office that 
the patient was diagnosed with HIV (onset unknown).  The outcome for the events suspected PML and HIV is 
unknown. Causality for the events of suspected PML and HIV is unknown.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued.
Update 28 Oct 2014: A healthcare provider from the neurologist's office reported the following during an inbound 
call.  The patient tested JCV Ab positive in Jun 2014, index 1.75. Patient came into office early Oct 2014 for IV 
Solu-medrol (methylprednisolone) infusion for what was thought to be MS symptoms in the form of difficulty walking
and vision issues at the time.  The neurologist decided to refer the patient to a MS specialist for brain biopsy. A MRI
was not done when the patient was at the MDO as the patient does not have insurance and last MRI was 
performed on 07 Aug 2014 that showed comparison to 24 Jun 2014 and noted that study is of particularily poor 
quality making direct comparison more difficult. Numerous white matter lesions. Increased T2 signal in brachii 
pontis, unchanged from prior. Large lesion in central pons, 15 mm - clearly enlarged from previous (12 mm), lesion 
does not enhance. Multiple white matter lesions near, but not directly within the peritrigonal zones; no gross 
change. Subcortical lesion in posterior parietal zone which has increased from previous. Multiple subcortical lesions
seen in both frontal lobes without significant change. Callosal septal interface is normal. A few of the lesions show 
mildly increased DWI signal, but no evidence for diffusion restriction on the ADC sequence, Negative for bleed. 
Post gadolinium sequences reveal no abnormal enhancement. In particular, the pontine lesion does not enhance. 
In summary the 07 Aug 2014 showed numberous white matter lesions, some of which have enlarged from outside 
study 24 Jun 2014. The pattern of disease is not classic for MS, although atypical MS must be considered first. 
Given the atypical pattern, other causes need to be excluded. It was noted to evaluate the patient for toxic 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 501 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
demyelination.   A MRI also performed in 24 Jun 2014 showed patchy and confluent areas of increased fluid signal 
intensity scattered throughout the white matter on the T2 and FLAIR images. A large area of abnormality is present 
in the brainstem at the level of the left cerebellar peduncle and extending caudally into the midline of the pons along
the expected location of the aqueduct. These white matter abnormalities do not enhance following contrast and 
could represent gliosis related to MS. Small vessel ischemic disease is less likely given the patient's age. This is 
not the typical pattern for vasculitis, infection, or metastatic disease. There is no midline shift. The ventricles are 
normal in size and position. There is no intracranial hemorrhage. There is no abnormal area of enhancement within 
the brain. In summary the 24 Jun 2014 showed scattered white matter abnormalities involving the brainstem and 
the supratentorial white matter. Consider a demyelinating process such as MS.  The neurologist has not seen the 
patient since this time in early Oct 2014, so there is no additional information to report at this time.
Update 31 Oct 2014: The MS Specialist replied to follow-up questions and reported the following.  A brain biopsy 
with JCV testing was not performed.  The patient was diagnosed with HIV and a low CD4.  An LP was performed 
with CSF JCV DNA testing  with results not reported.  Brain MRI findings at the time of PML suspicion showed brain
stem and periventricular white matter changes.  Brain MRI findings at baseline showed similar results that were 
less severe.  The patient received antiviral treatment.  The patient has not received IS.  Clinically the patient is 
worsening and is at home. PML has been diagnosed.  Causality was assessed as probably not related.
Update 06 Nov 2014:  Upon internal review this case remains low suspect for PML pending more information on 
HIV diagnosis, CSF JCV PCR, and MRI details.
Update 10 Nov 2014: A representative at (b) (6)  confirmed receipt of CSF samples both on (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  and 15 Oct [2014] for JCV Ultra Quant[itative] PCR testing. No further information was reported.
Update 21 Nov 2014:  Additional information was received from a registered nurse from the treating neurologist's 
office via a MS PML Data Collection Form: Suspect.  The male patient on TYSABRI (no interruption of therapy for 
greater than 3 months) was being evaluated for PML suspicion.   MRI reports noted that the patient was 
hospitalized from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  and again from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)   The patient is currently
at home.  It was noted that MS was diagnosed in Aug 2014 (discrepant from previously noted diagnosis date of May
2014).  MS disease symptoms prior to suspected PML included depression, insomnia, and fatigue 
(cognitive/behavioral), problems with coordination including fine motor function of the hands, impaired gait, and 
hyperreflexia (motor), slurring, stuttering, and dysarthria (speech), worsening of vision, diplopia (visual), decreased 
sensation to touch and temperature and right upper lip numbness (sensory), and problems swallowing, fatigue, and
heat intolerance (other) (onset dates not provided). The patient has never received prior immunosuppressant 
therapy; however, immunomodulatory therapy included Rebif (interferon beta-1a) for MS from Jul 2014 to Aug 
2014.  Signs and symptoms which led to the evaluation for possible PML included worsening of previous 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 502 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
symptoms, difficulty walking, gait imbalance, problems with dexterity and coordination (motor) (onset Jul 2014), 
slurred speech and dysarthria (speech) (onset Mar 2014), vision hazy, vertical diplopia, binocular (visual) (onset Jul 
2014), and right hand numbness with decreased sensation to light touch and temperature (sensory) (onset Jul 
2014).  Signs and symptoms prompted MRI on (b) (6) which revealed suspicious findings. This MRI showed 
multiple T2/FLAIR hyperintense lesions throughout cerebral and cerebellar hemispheres and pons. Cerebral 
lesions are within subcortical white matter and more severe within the parieto-occipital lobes. There was also 
involvement of bilateral middle cerebellar peduncles. The larger lesions within the cerebrum demonstrate mild 
diffusion restriction with T2 shine through the right parietal lesion demonstrates diffusion restriction it's the leading 
edge. No evidence of abnormal enhancement, acute hemorrhage, or hydrocephalus.  Primary consideration is 
PML. This could also be mixed with a posterior reversible encephalopathy of an atypical nature. These lesions are 
not typical for MS.  MRI performed on(b) (6)  showed multiple T2/FLAIR hyperintense lesions throughout the 
cerebral and cerebellar hemispheres as well as the brainstem, cerebral peduncles, and middle cerebellar 
peduncles have increased in size since the prior study. Small areas of diffusion restriction in this white matter 
abnormality in the pons and left basal ganglia. Large amount of T2 shine through. No abnormal enhancement 
within the affected area. No abnormal parenchymal or acute meningeal enhancement. Impression was noted as 
interval progression of previously imaged T2/FLAIR white matter hyperintense lesions consistent w/ IRIS in the 
setting of PML receiving HAART therapy.  Lumbar punctures were performed on (b) (6)  and (b) (6)
CSF JCV DNA result from 08 Oct 2014 sample tested positive at 1,986 copies/ml at (b) (6)  and sample 
from (b) (6)  tested positive at 2,172 copies/ml at (b) (6)  Additional laboratory results included: 
(b) (6)  HIV1QNTX:190 (high) and HIV1 QL10: 2.28 (high).  05 Nov 2014: CD4 17.0% (low) and CD4 
absolute: 298 (low) (normal ranges not provided). (b) (6)  CSF analysis: color: clear, glucose: 59, protein: 45,
WBC count: 3, RBC count: 13 (high), XANTH: absent, albumin 25.9 mg/dL (high) (range 13.9 - 24.6); IgG: 7.35 
mg/dL (high) (normal high <=5.86); IgG index: 0.8 (high), IgG Syn: 10.5. CSF cultures: no growth after 5 days. CD4:
16.0% (low), CD4 absolute: 367 (low), CD8 53.0% (high), CD8 absolute 1216 (high), CD4/CD8 ratio: 0.3 (low), 4.95
(high), IgG: 1449 mg/dL (range 650 - 1643), HIV1QNTX: 88,100, and HIV1: QL10. 09 Oct 2014: CSF: CSF 
analysis: color: none, clarity: clear, glucose: 52, protein: 46 (high), WBC count: 2, RBC count: 619 (high), XANTH: 
absent. NMO IgG: negative at (b) (6)  laboratory; angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE): 8; Epstein Barr virus (EBV) 
qPCR: none detected. The patient was treated with oral corticosteroids (NOS) for 14 days started on (b) (6)
and received two plasmapheresis treatments on (b) (6) and (b) (6)  the patient refused additional 
plasmapheresis treatments. The patient was not tested for serum anti-JCV antibody status at their site [while 
hospitalized] and a brain biopsy was not performed. PML was assessed as not related to TYSABRI.  At the time of 
this report, PML has not been ruled out and is ongoing.
Update 03 Dec 2014: Additional information was provided by the neurologist via a Biogen Idec Employee (medical 
science liaison).   The neurologist clarified that opportunistic infection was previously marked on TOUCH form in 
reference to PML and has confirmed that no other opportunistic infection was being considered (removed as an 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 503 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
event).    Additional information was also provided by a registered nurse from the neurologist's office via a Biogen 
Idec Employee (medical science liaison).  According to the registered nurse, she and the neurologists do not 
believe that the patient has MS and that the patient had PML prior to receiving TYSABRI.  The registered nurse 
reported that the patient was a healthy male in his 30s, from upper middle class family, college educated, 
heterosexual, who probably contracted HIV in college. The patient worked for his father at a construction company; 
however, the patient's fatigue became so great that he couldn't work.  The patient first presented with a stutter and 
fatigue to his primary care physician.  In May 2014, the patient was referred to a neurologist for MS treatment.
Initially, the patient was thought to have MS.  Given that the patient did not have risk factors for STDs (patient was a
heterosexual with no history of IV drug use) and the patient not having health insurance, limited testing was 
performed.  In early Oct 2014, when the patient was treated with IV Solu-Medrol at the neurologist's office, the 
patient was referred to a MS specialist (treating neurologist), who after evaluation, did not think the patient had MS, 
but had some other infectious process (presumed in reference to previously reported event suspected PML).  The 
patient had a follow-up visit with the treating neurologist on 02 Nov 2014.  The MS clinic note provided during this 
follow-up visit indicated that the patient was recently hospitalized (presumed in reference to previously 
hospitalization from (b) (6)  to (b) (6) ) and diagnosed with HIV and PML, based on clinical symptoms, 
MRI changes, and CSF JCV PCR positive.  The patient reported feeling the same with no change in dysarthria, 
ataxia, or weakness; however, the patient's father thought that the patient was worse.  According to the father, the 
patient's right hand and leg were worse, he could not walk, and has had a fall.  The patient has not experienced 
new symptoms and could eat finger foods himself; however, was not sleeping well.  The patient agreed with his 
father's assessment and his symptoms, including dysphagia, dysarthria, and ataxia was worsening.  The patient 
was requiring increasing assistance with ADLs.  The patient was seen by ID [infectious disease] and started on HIV
treatment.  Treatment with cidofovir for PML was recommended, but patient and his family were concerned about 
potential side effects and were not sure if they wanted to start this. It was noted that the patient was not believed to 
have or had MS and that PML has been the cause of the patient's symptoms.  The patient's weight was 65.82 kg 
and height was 182.88 cm.  Active problems included hypertension, knee pain, multiple sclerosis, and sinus 
problem.  The patient has been wheelchair bound, a smoker, first sexually active at age 15 and has had a lifetime 
of 20 sexual partners.  Allergies included amoxicillin and Septra (sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim).  The patient 
was prescribed Norvir (ritonavir), Prezista (darunavir), and Truvada (emtricitabine and tenofovir).  Documented 
medications included citalopram and Vitamin D3.    PLEX was being considered as the patient recently had 
TYSABRI 4 weeks ago.
Update 31 Dec 2014: CT and MRI scans with reports were provided by the neurologist. Dates of scans/reports 
received: 14 May 2014 (new CT info), 24 Jun 2014 (MRI report previously received), and 07 Aug 2014 (MRI report 
previously received). Summary of CT of brain and internal auditory canal w/without contrast as follows: Exam 
performed on 14 May 2014, noted clinical history included slurred speech (onset unknown), healing inner ear 
infection (onset unknown); previous surgery for sinuses. Findings included no midline shift or mass effect, intra or 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 504 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
extra-axial fluid collections or hemorrhage in the cerebral hemispheres; no abnormal areas of altered attenuation 
with the periventricular white matter or basal ganglia; normal brainstem and visualized cerebellar hemispheres were
unremarkable; the ventricular system was normal in size, with no evidence of hydrocephalus or transependymal 
flow of cerebrospinal fluid; normal skull base with no parasellar masses or abnormalities identified; no abnormality 
was seen in calvarium and scalp region; and no significant inflammatory changes identified in the paranasal 
sinuses. Impression was noted as no intracranial abnormality detected. Additionally, no abnormality of the internal 
auditory canals was detected. Also, on review of labs, the following was noted: On (b) (6)  CD3% was 73.0%, 
CD3 absolute was 1675, infection serology results was negative for Hepatitis A, B, and C, RPR (rapid plasma 
regain) was non-reactive, Toxoplasmosis IgG was <6.5 and on(b) (6)  CSF angiotensin converting enzyme 
(ACE) was 8.
Update 22 Jan 2015:  Upon internal review, this case has been PML confirmed based on positive CSF, radiologic 
evidence, and clinical symptoms. PML unrelated to TYSABRI exposure. Radiologic evidence of PML occurring prior
to TYSABRI exposure. PML lesions (on MRI) misdiagnosed as MS before TYSABRI was given. The patient was 
diagnosed with HIV at the time of PML diagnosis. The patient?s low CD4 count, CD4%, and CD4/CD8 ratio at time 
of PML diagnosis suggest chronic HIV infection. Case will not be considered part of the TYSABRI-PML case count.
Update 22 Apr 2015: Follow-up information received from the patient's father reported that the patient passed away
(date and cause not provided).  No further information was provided.  Attempts to obtain additional information are 
ongoing.
Update 30 Apr 2015: Follow-up information received from a healthcare professional at the neurologist's office 
reported the patient was no longer under this neurologist's care at the time of this death and therefore, they have no
further information. She additionally reported that the patient's obituary indicated the date of death was (b) (6)  
(b) (6)