AER 1479391 is a spontaneous case, received on 22/Oct/2014 from a physician via company representative and 
concerns a female patient of unknown age who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), 
ataxia, dysarthria, impaired coordination and CNS vasculitis while being treated with rituximab (Rituxan) and 
mycophenolate mofetil (Cellcept).
Concomitant medications included prednisone, azathioprine and methotrexate. No medical history, concurrent 
conditions or past medications were not reported.
In //1988, the patient was diagnosed with lupus. In //2012, she started therapy with rituximab (route, form, dose and 
frequency not reported) for lupus and refractory cytopenias. Later, she started mycophenolate mofetil (route, form, 
dose and frequency not reported) for unknown indication. Later, she developed progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). In /Aug/2012, the therapy with rituximab and mycophenolate mofetil was interrupted. 
In Oct/2014, she experienced ataxia, dysarthria and impaired coordination. Later, her nuclear magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) showed lesion in the cerebellum and concern for CNS vasculitis. Later, she was treated with 
intravenous methylprednisolone sodium succinate 1 g for 3 days, but she did not get better. Her lumbar puncture 
(LP) was done and cerebro spinal fluid (CSF) JC virus positive. It was reported that she was discharged home to be
comfortable.
At the time of this report, the outcome of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), ataxia, dysarthria, 
impaired coordination and CNS vasculitis was not reported.
The physician did not assess the causal relationship of the events progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(PML), ataxia, dysarthria, impaired coordination and CNS vasculitis with rituximab and mycophenolate mofetil.
The physician assessed the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), ataxia, dysarthria, impaired 
coordination and CNS vasculitis as medically significant. 
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML.
No further information was provided.
Follow-up information was received on 23/Nov/2014. The following information was added to case from a physician:
Information regarding patient details (gender), details of rituximab (start date, end date and indication), suspect 
drug (mycophenolate mofetil), concomitant medications (prednisone, azathioprine and methotrexate), drug used to 
treat AE (methylprednisolone sodium) and lab test (MRI and LP) added and new events (ataxia, dysarthria, 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 497 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
impaired coordination and CNS vasculitis) and narrative updated.