AER 1485879 is a literature-spontaneous case, received at Chugai pharmaceutical co. Ltd, Japan (Chugai 
reference number: A2014048873) on 29/Oct/2014 and at Roche on 05/Nov/2014, from a physician, and concerns a
7 decade old female patient who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and pneumonia aspiration 
while being treated with mycophenolate mofetil (Cellcept).
No past drug was reported.
On an unspecified date, the patient was started on oral mycophenolate mofetil capsule as a prophylaxis against 
lung transplant rejection (dose and frequency : not reported).  In 2008 (at the age of 56 years), she underwent right 
unilateral lung transplant from a brain-dead donor for respiratory failure associated with lymphangioleiomyomatosis 
(LAM).  In Oct/2013, (during follow-up observation), a tendency toward somnolence was pointed out by her family 
member. Besides, misuse of oral drugs and incontinence were noted.  In (b) (6)  she was admitted to the 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 529 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
reporting hospital for suspected neurologic disorder.  On an unspecified date, magnetic resonance imaging of the 
head revealed hyperintense regions in the inside of the right temporal lobe on fluid-attenuated inversion-recovery 
(FLAIR) images. Neurological findings included memory disturbance, frontal lobe signs, and increased tendon 
reflexes in the extremities. Virus assay of spinal fluid detected JCV. Accordingly, PML associated with JCV infection
was diagnosed. However, immunosuppressive drugs for the primary disease could not be discontinued. The doses 
of tacrolimus, prednisolone, and mycophenolate mofetil were thus reduced as low as possible. However, disturbed 
consciousness progressed because of pneumonia secondary to aspiration, which suggested that the lesion had 
extended to the medulla oblongata, associated with increased central apnea resulting from akinetic mutism state.
At the time of the report, the outcome of the event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and pneumonia 
aspiration was unknown.  Therapy with mycophenolate mofetil was ongoing.
The reporting physician did not provide a causal relationship between the events progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy and pneumonia aspiration with mycophenolate mofetil.
The company assessed the event pneumonia aspiration to be medically significant.
This case was presented at a meeting. The contents of the presentation are in this ICSR.
Further information has been requested.
Literature reference :
Niikawa Hiromichi, Sado Tetsu, Matsuda Yasushi, et al.
P-022  A Case of Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy Associated with JC Virus Infection after Lung 
Transplant
//; Abstracts of the 50th Annual Congress of the Japan Society for Transplantation / The 50th Annual Congress of 
the Japan Society for Transplantation (From 10 SEP 2014 to 12 SEP 2014) / Shinjuku, Tokyo
Additional information was received on 05/Nov/2014 and the following information was added to the case: Article 
attached for distribution purpose.