This case was reported in a literature article and described the occurrence of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy in a 32-year-old male patient who received abacavir sulphate, lamivudine (Abacavir Sulfate + 
Lamivudine) unknown for hiv infection. (Gliga S, Devaux M, Carlier R, Perronne C, Davido B. Neurological 
complications in HIV patients - a case of PML-IRIS.. 10th Edition of the Scientific Days of the National Instit for 
Infect Diseases 2014;  : P93.) 
Co-suspect products included darunavir + ritonavir (Darunavir Plus Ritonavir) for hiv infection. 
Concurrent medical conditions included chronic renal insufficiency and hepatitis b. Concomitant products included 
pentamidine isethionate (Pentacarinat). 
On an unknown date, the patient started Abacavir Sulfate + Lamivudine at an unknown dose twice daily and 
Darunavir Plus Ritonavir at an unknown dose twice daily. On an unknown date, 14 days after starting Abacavir 
Sulfate + Lamivudine, the patient experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (serious criteria GSK 
medically significant), immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (serious criteria GSK medically significant), 
dysphagia (serious criteria clinically significant/intervention required), fever, mild left facial palsy, neurological 
deficit, mri abnormal and jc polyomavirus test positive. The action taken with Abacavir Sulfate + Lamivudine was 
unknown. The action taken with Darunavir Plus Ritonavir was unknown. On an unknown date, the outcome of the 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, fever, mild left facial 
palsy and neurological deficit were recovering/resolving and the outcome of the dysphagia, mri abnormal and jc 
polyomavirus were unknown. 
The reporter considered the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, immune reconstitution inflammatory 
syndrome, dysphagia, fever, mild left facial palsy, neurological deficit and mri abnormal to be related to Abacavir 
Sulfate + Lamivudine. It was unknown if the reporter considered the jc polyomavirus to be related to Abacavir 
Sulfate + Lamivudine.
Additional details:
The patient was originating from Ghana. Following investigation of chronic renal insufficiency was diagnosed with 
HIV-HBV co-infection. The immuno-virological status at baseline showed a high HIV1 viral load (247,000 
copies/mL) and low CD4 cell count=11/cmm. In adjunction to Pneumocystis prophylaxis with pentacarinat aerosols,
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 526 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
HAART was initiated with lamivudine/abacavir + darunavir/r BID. Two weeks after initiation of HAART he presented 
with progressive dysphagia, fever and mild left facial palsy of central type. His blood tests showed a decrease in 
viral load &gt;2 log and CD4 cell count=79/cmm. The neurological deficit rapidly progressed to the left brachial and 
crural regions. There was a high suspicion of toxoplasmosis. However, neuroimaging (MRI) revealed diffuse plus 
white matter lesions involving the U-fibers suggestive of PML but atypical because of contrast enhancement and a 
mass effect on the left ventricular. Hence we hypothesized the patient could be suffering of an IRIS. The lumbar 
puncture parameters were: Cells 7/cmm, proteins 0.31 g/L, glucose 3.1 mmol/L and a positive PCR for JCV (360 
copies/mL). The diagnosis of PML motivated the addition of maraviroc and raltegravir BID to the therapy. The 
outcome was favorable in the absence of corticosteroid therapy, with slow but complete regression of the brachial 
and crural motor deficit after 1 month. Dysphagia (bilateral paralysis of the IXth and XIIth cranial nerves) persisted 
for several months, requiring temporary installation of a gastrostomy.
The authors commented "the availability of HAART can also be responsible for some PML cases attributed to the 
reconstitution of the immune system known as PML-IRIS".