Based on additional information received on 29-Oct-2014, this case initially processed as a spontaneous from 
health authority case (non-literature) is now considered as literature case.
Narrative: Regulator-spontaneous report was received on 02-JUL-2012 from a physician via Spanish health 
authority (Regulatory reference number: ES-AGEMED-710555237) regarding a 49 year old female patient, initials 
unknown. The patient's medical history was significant for acute promyelocytic leukemia. On (b) (6)  the 
patient underwent hematopoietic stem cell transplant. On 09-NOV-2011, the patient initiated treatment with 
tacrolimus (dosage regimen not provided). On 29-NOV-2011, the patient initiated treatment with Fludara 
(fludarabine phosphate) at a dose of 51 mg, qd, intravenously and Treosulfan at a dose of 23.8 gms, qd, 
intravenously. On 02-DEC-2011, the treatment with Treosulfan was completed. 03-DEC-2011, the patient also 
initiated treatment with Thymoglobulin at a dose of 170 mg/day, qd, intravenously and completed treatment with 
Fludara. On 05-DEC-2011, the treatment with Thymoglobulin was completed. The lot number for Thymoglobulin 
was C1268C02 and for Fludara was not provided. On (b) (6) , (b)(6)  days after the transplant, the patient 
developed lymphoproliferative syndrome and was treated with rituximab. On (b) (6)  the treatment with 
tacrolimus was completed. On an unspecified date, the patient experienced multi organ failure. On (b) (6)
the patient died due to lymphoproliferative syndrome and multi organ failure. The action taken with Thymoglobulin 
and Fludara was not provided. Relevant concomitant medications were not provided. The intensity for both the 
events was not provided. The reporting physician assessed the relationship between Thymoglobulin and the event 
of lymphoproliferative syndrome as possible and did not provide the relationship between Fludara and the events of
lymphoproliferative syndrome and multiple organ failure. The relationship between Thymoglobulin and the event of 
multiple organ failure was not provided.
This is one of the three cases from the same reporter. The other list of cases from the same reporter are THYM-
1003315, THYM-1003316 and THYM-1003317.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 543 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Follow up information was received on 09-OCT-2012 in the form of QA (quality assurance) investigation summary. 
All the batch records are reviewed by qualified persons prior to any batch release. All release control testing for 
these lots, at each of the different manufacturing steps, complied with the specifications and are within the usual 
trends. This lot was manufactured in accordance with EU GMP and FDA cGMP. All documentation was reviewed 
prior to release. All deviations and change controls generated in Genzyme Polyclonals ((b) (4) ) for Thymoglobulin 
lot number C1268C02 have been reviewed and no issues were identified which could have contributed to these 
complaints.
Follow-up information was received on 25-OCT-2012 from a physician via Spanish health authority regarding the 
patient's transplantation and event information. On (b) (6)  the patient underwent hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation. The event term lymphoproliferative disorder was updated to post-transplant lymphoproliferative 
disorder.
Follow-up information was received on 08-AUG-2013, from the physician via Spanish health authority regarding the 
patient's relevant medical history, laboratory data, concomitant medications, corrective treatment, clinical course 
and event information. The patient's medical history was significant for previous treatment with pethema-lpa 
(idarubicin, mitoxantrone and tretinoin) protocol (complete remission), first relapse of acute promyelocytic 
leukaemia ( in MAR-2006, second complete remission with arsenic trioxide), second relapse refractory to arsenic 
trioxide (in MAR-2010, third complete remission with ifosfamide, carboplatin and etoposide chemotherapy and 
chemotherapeutic intensification performed with busulfan, cyclophosphamide and autologous haematopoietic stem 
cell support) and third relapse of acute promyelocytic leukaemia (in SEP-2011). The patient underwent allogeneic 
transplant of bone marrow from an unrelated donor (with disparities in c and dqb1). On day 30 post-transplant, 
complete chimerism was observed. On an unspecified date, the patient developed diarrhoea that was labelled as a 
possible graft versus host disease (negative histology). The patient was treated with steroids but did not responded.
On unspecified dates, digestive disease due to cytomegalovirus was confirmed and the patient developed 
haematological toxicity. On (b) (6)  (approximately (b)(6)  days post-transplant), the patient was admitted to 
hospital with fever, dysthermia, nausea, vomits, diarrhoea with diffuse abdominal pain, dysuria with tenesmus and a
dry cough. On unspecified dates in (b) (6)  the patient's physical examination revealed diffuse abdominal pain 
without peritonism and patient's blood count showed persistent pancytopenia. The patient was initially treated with 
valganciclovir which was replaced with foscarnet and an empiric antibiotic therapy with quinolones and then 
subsequently replaced by meropenem and amikacin. On an unspecified date in (b) (6)  the patient's urine 
polymerase chain reaction (pcr) was positive for the JC/BK virus. The events of urine test positive for BK virus, 
haematological toxicity, pancytopenia and urine test positive for JC virus were assessed as medically significant by 
the company. It was reported that the patient's fever persisted and digestive condition worsened with liquid 
diarrhoea, abdominal pain and proctorrhagia. On an unspecified date in (b) (6) , a computerized tomographic 
(CT) scan showed supraclavicular and retroperitoneal adenopathies that appeared pathological. It was reported 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 544 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
that the patient's clinical condition worsened rapidly, developing multiple organ failure, with liver, renal, and 
respiratory (dyspnoea, hypoxemia, infiltrate in the right base) function deterioration. On (b) (6)  the patient 
developed septic shock which proved to be refractory and the patient died (additional cause of death along with 
post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder and multiple organ failure).  An autopsy revealed the microscopic 
persistence of the underlying disease (acute promyelocytic leukaemia) in the bone marrow, a polymorphic post-
transplant lymphoproliferative disorder, intravascular and parenchymatous cytomegalovirus in both lungs, bilateral 
pulmonary oedema and haemorrhage, splenomegaly, hepatomegaly and pronounced t-lymphocyte depletion 
(immunosuppression). The outcome for the events of urine test positive for BK virus, haematological toxicity, 
pancytopenia, digestive disease due to cytomegalovirus infection and urine test positive for JC virus was not 
provided. Relevant concomitant medications included methotrexate, total parenteral nutrition and antifungal 
therapy. The intensity for the events of urine test positive for BK virus, haematological toxicity, digestive disease 
due to cytomegalovirus infection and urine test positive for JC virus was not provided. The intensity for the events of
septic shock and pancytopenia was assessed as severe. The reporter did not provide the relationship of 
Thymoglobulin, Fludara, Treosulfan and Tacrolimus with the events of urine test positive for BK virus, 
haematological toxicity, pancytopenia, digestive disease due to cytomegalovirus infection, urine test positive for JC 
virus and septic shock.
Additional information was received on 29-Oct-2014 via a literature article: Yanez L, Bermudez A, Insunza A, 
Romon I. and Richard C. Unexpected Outbreak of Epstein-Barr Virus Post Transplantation Lymphoproliferative 
Disorder after Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation Conditioning with Thymoglobulin. Biol Blood Marrow 
Transplant. 2014;20:1455-1458. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.03.011. This case initially processed as 
a spontaneous from health authority case (non-literature) is now considered as literature case. Concomitant 
medication of aciclovir (Acyclovir) for prophylaxis was added. From this publication other cases were THYM-
1003316, THYM-1003317, THYM-1003404, THYM-1003361, THYM-1003402, THYM-1003403, THYM-1003443 
and 2014SA122638 (cluster) and 2014SA120263 (duplicate).