Medically Significant
The husband of a 53 year old female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple Sclerosis from 04 Mar 
2008 to 14 Oct 2014 spontaneously reported that the patient was currently hospitalized in critical care and not 
expected to survive (date and reason not provided). Concomitant medication included Ampyra (dalfampridine). 
TYSABRI therapy was previously discontinued.  No further information was provided. 
Update 28 Oct 2014:  The treating neurologist spontaneously reported that the female patient, who is enrolled in 
(b) (6)  had been diagnosed with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy approximately (b)(6)  days
ago on (b) (6)  According to the treating neurologist, the patient was hospitalized after she became lethargic 
and had an altered mental state.  Prior MS therapy included Avonex and Rebif (interferon beta-1a).  At the time of 
this report the TOUCH database indicated that the patient received a total of 94 doses of TYSABRI from 05 Mar 
2007 to 23 Sep 2014 (dates discrepant from reported information).  No testing or treatment for the event was 
reported. However, the patient had tested JCV antibody positive on an unknown date. At the time of this report, the 
patient was still in the hospital and will be going to hospice care eventually. The outcome of the event is unknown 
and the causality of the event in relation to TYSABRI was not assessed.  It is unknown if TYSABRI therapy was 
ongoing.
Update 28 Oct 2014: Additional information was received from the treating neurologist via a Biogen Idec Employee 
(area business manager).  A MRI was performed on the female patient who was suspected for PML (date and 
results not provided). The event is ongoing and the causality of the event in relation to TYSABRI was assessed as 
related. No further information was provided.
Update 28 Oct 2014: Additional information was received from the treating neurologist via a Biogen Idec Employee 
(area business manager).  According to the treating neurologist, the patient's prescribing neurologist had stated 
"this patient had abrupt stroke syndrome (date unknown)?hemiparesis.  And has hole in heart and heavy tobacco 
abuse.  Hopefully they will do LP in hospital."  No further information was provided.
Update 29 Oct 2014: JCV antibody results for this patient who is enrolled in (b) (6)  was provided.  At 
baseline, JCV antibody was detected with an index of 0.308 on 29 Dec 2010.  On 22 Nov 2013, JCV antibody was 
positive with an index of 0.97.  On 24 Jul 2014, JCV antibody was also positive with an index of 3.24.
Update 18 Nov 2014: Upon follow-up, the treating neurologist reported that the patient was admitted to the hospital 
in (b) (6)  and "came with the story" that she had been diagnosed with a stroke 6 weeks earlier (presume in 
reference to previously reported event abrupt stroke syndrome). During the patient's hospitalization, a MRI on (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  compared to MRI from 22 Sep 2014 showed widespread PML (read by neuroradiologist at (b) (6)
Hospital). Apparently, prior to the hospitalization, MRI from 22 Sep 2014 was read as a stroke by an outside 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 563 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
radiologist; however, according to the treating neurologist, this scan didn?t show a vascular distribution and when 
compared to MRI on (b) (6)  it was clear that this was not a stroke, and that it was widespread PML. Initially, 
IRIS was considered; however, the patient had a TYSABRI infusion 2?3 weeks prior to the MRI, so IRIS was no 
longer considered. PML was diagnosed based on the progression of changes between 2 MRIs and the patient?s 
JCV titer (titer thought to be around 2.6). No LP was performed because PML had too far progressed and the 
patient was so compromised that it wasn?t worth it. The patient received no treatment for PML (no PLEX, no meds)
due to patient?s poor clinical condition/prognosis (PML was very progressed) and length of time since the last dose 
of TYSABRI.  Patient was discharged to hospice on an unknown date.  It is unknown if the patient received any 
prior immunosuppressant therapy.  No further information was provided.
Update 18 Nov 2014: A registered nurse from the prescribing neurologist's office reported via a program of 
Monitored Therapy that the patient is deceased (date unknown).  It is unknown if cause of death was stroke. The 
causality of the event of deceased in relation to TYSABRI is unknown.  Action taken with TYSABRI at the time of 
death was unknown.
Update 19 Nov 2014: MRI scans were received for MRIs performed on 01 May 2014, 22 Sep 2014, and (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  no MRI reports were provided.
Update 20 Nov 2014: The prescribing neurologist reported via a TOUCH discontinuation questionnaire that the 
patient is no longer alive (date unknown).  Cause of death was not provided.  The prescribing neurologist also 
reported that the patient had been under investigation for PML (previously reported as suspected PML) and 
malignancy and hospitalized (dates not provided) for an opportunistic infection (under investigation) (onsets 
unknown) since starting TYSABRI therapy.  The patient had not been tested for the presence of anti-JCV 
antibodies since 09 Sep 2014.  No treatment was reported. The outcome of the events under investigation for PML,
under investigation for malignancy, and opportunistic infection (under investigation) is unknown. The causality of 
the events in relations to TYSABRI was not assessed. No further information was provided.
Update 21 Nov 2014: A male consumer (unknown relationship to the patient) reported that the patient passed away
(b)
(6) weeks ago (exact date not provided, presume sometime in 
(b) (6) ).  No additional information was provided.
Update 25 Nov 2014: Upon internal review, Biogen Idec considers this case to be high suspect for PML based on 
internal review of MRI scans and clinical presentation.
Update 26 Nov 2014: Upon written follow-up, additional information was provided by a health care professional 
from the treating neurologist's office. The patient initially experienced lethargy and altered mental status in (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  which was misread as a stroke.  Upon second [hospital] admission, the patient had increasing 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 564 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
unresponsiveness and continued to decline starting on (b) (6)   The office is unaware of any prior 
immunosuppressant therapy in this patient.  The patient did not develop IRIS and was discharged to hospice.
Update 01 Dec 2014: Additional information was received from a health care professional from the treating 
neurologist's office via medical records.  The patient was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)    The 
patient was admitted due to the following: acute respiratory failure, CVA (cerebral infarction), encephalopathy 
(unspecified), fever, hypertension, and hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, acute pansinusitus, and acute 
osteomyelititis of pelvic region.  The patient presented with altered mental status.  She was intubated and nonverbal
at the time of admission.  History was provided by the patient's caregiver, her husband.  Patient's medical history 
included progressive MS for the past 20 years, Stage III pressure ulcer of right ischium, bladder spasm, 
cerebrovascular accident, convulsions, and smoking.  Past surgical history included baclofen pump implantation 
around (b) (6)  tubal ligation, appendectomy, tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy, and I&D [incision and 
drainage] of right buttocks. Medications prior to admission included amantadine, aspirin, clonazepam, Ampyra 
(dalfampridine), hydrocodone-acetaminophen, oxcarbazepine, paroxetine, Lyrica (pregabalin), and sertraline. The 
patient had experienced a stroke 6 weeks prior to admission [previously reported as abrupt stroke syndrome; onset 
(b) (6)  date discrepant), which left her unable to use the left side of her body; she also lost vision on the left 
side.  At baseline, the patient was bedridden and has little use of her legs.  She was able to feed herself and speak 
up until a few days prior to hospitalization when she started losing her voice, not talking as much, and started 
sleeping more. She was not responding like she usually did and was not eating.  The patient has had difficulty with 
swallowing since her stroke and her diet was changed to a dysphagia diet with thickened liquids.  She was not able 
to use her left arm since her stroke but she had good use of her right arm until a few days prior to hospitalization.
She was also more "gurgly" and bringing up "yellow" stuff out of her mouth.  The patient's husband called EMS as 
soon as he found the patient unresponsive, thought was that  patient may have aspirated as the exact length of 
time of her unresponsiveness was unclear.  It was noted that the patient has been bedridden for the past year.  The
patient had been on TYSABRI for MS for the past 7 years and recently stopped and was supposed to start Aubagio 
(teriflunomide).  The husband was unsure, but thought the patient had been JCV virus positive (titer level unknown) 
and was being switched [off of TYSABRI] because of increasing difficulty with transporting his wife for her infusions.
 While hospitalized, the patient was treated with azithromycin, cefepime, famotidine, heparin, potassium chloride, 
propofol, albumin, and vancomycin. A chest x-ray on (date unknown) showed extensive airspace disease in the left 
lung base consistent with pneumonia.  On (b) (6)  an endotracheal aspirate sample was collected - prelimary 
culture results showed normal respiratory flora and final gram stain of this sample showed moderate WBCs and a 
few gram positive cocci. Relevant abnormal CBC and differential findings on (b) (6)  included:  RDW 14.3% 
(high), neutrophil 41.0% (low), bands 21% (high), metamyelocytes  1% (high), and myelocytes 1% (high).  Relevant 
abnormal CBC and differential findings on (b) (6)  included: RBC 3.54 M/cmm (low), hemoglobin 11.1 gm/dL 
(low), hematocrit 32.6 (low), RDW 14.1% (high), and bands 28 (high).  Relevant abnormal basic metabolic panel 
findings on (b) (6)  included: chloride 111 mMol/L (high), glucose 120 mg/dL (high), creatinine 0.48 mg/dl 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 565 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(low), and BUN/creatinine ratio 31.3 (high).  Relevant abnormal comprehensive metabolic panel findings on (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  included:  potassium 2.9 mMol/L (low), glucose 117 mg/dL (high), creatinine 0.50 mg/dL (low), albumin 3.0 
gm/dL (low), and BUN/creatinine ratio 34.0 (high).  A routine EEG performed during confusional state on (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  was abnormal. The absence of normal background activities of wakefulness and sleep with reactive slowing 
was consistent with a moderate encephalopathy of nonspecific origin, including toxic, metabolic, pharmacological or
diffuse or multifocal structural. There was no evidence of seizures including nonconvulsive status epilepticus as a 
contributing etiology to the patient's state of impaired responsiveness.  Relevant abnormal comprehensive 
metabolic panel findings on (b) (6)  included:  potassium 5.6 mMol/L(high), chloride 112 mMol/L (high), 
glucose 102 mg/dL (high), creatinine 0.48 mg/dL (low), AST (SGOT) 52 U/L (high), and BUN/creatinine ratio 31.3 
(high).  Relevant abnormal urinalysis findings on (b) (6)  included: ketones 20 mg/dl, trace of blood, nitrite 
positive, and RBC 9/hpf (high).  CT of pelvis and head were performed (date not provided).  Blood cultures were 
taken on (b) (6)  results were not provided. CT of the head and pelvis were performed (unknown date); head 
CT findings were as follows: subacute to chronic large right frontal stroke, chronic demyelinating disease, and 
moderate atrophy.  No change from prior MRI brain.  At that time, on (b) (6)  differential diagnoses included 
PML, immune reconstitution syndrome, extension of stroke, sepsis, and MS exacerbation. A head MRI was 
performed on (b) (6) , findings were as follows: Localized encephalomalacia invoking the right oporcular 
frontal temporal and parasagittal frontal regions much of this spares the cortical ribbon. There is leukomalacia 
involving the left frontal juxtacortical region. Increased T1-weighted signal along the cortical ribbon of the right 
frontal parasagittal cortical region as result of laminar necrosis; the pattern of these changes is atypical for an 
ischemic arterial distribution and more likely a result of IRIS and loss, likely PML. In the infratentorial views there 
are foci of chronic demyelination within the right and left cerebellum the medulla throughout the basis pontis 
midbrain is a small cyst within the left medial thalamus bilaterally lesions along the margins of the third ventricle and
along the margins of the lateral ventricles bilaterally. Moderately severe widening the cortical sulci fissures and 
cisterns, moderate enlargement of the lateral, third and mild enlargement of the fourth ventricles. Mucosal 
thickening within the left mastoid air cells fluid level within the right and left maxillary sinuses ethmoid sphenoid and 
frontal sinuses. Impression was noted as follows: Abnormal MRI scan of head: 1. Leukomalacia with 
encephalomalacia involving the right frontal temporal lobe and left dorsal frontal lobe, pattern is most characteristic 
of chronic changes from IRIS loss, likely PML and atypical for ischemic disease. 2. Numerous chronic infratentorial 
and supratentorial demyelinating plaques. 3. Moderate cortical and subcortical atrophy as result of the 
demyelinating disease. 4. Acute pansinusitis. 5. When compared to the prior MRI scan of the head from(b) (6)  
(b) (6)  there is normal evolutional change.  Discharge diagnoses included: pneumonitis due to inhalation of food or 
vomitus (onset unknown), PML, stage IV pressure ulcer and pressure ulcer in the buttock (onset unknown), 
osteomyelitis of the pelvic region and thigh (onset unknown), acute respiratory failure (onset unknown), and urinary 
tract infection (onset unknown).
Update 02 Feb 2015:  During an inbound return phone call, a registered nurse from the prescribing neurologist's 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 566 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
office reported that an autopsy was not performed.  No additional information was provided.
Update 05 Feb 2015: Upon internal review, Biogen Idec considers this case high suspect and final call for PML 
based on presence of radiologic evidence but without any evidence of CSF for JCV as CSF testing was not 
performed.  This case will be closed and no additional follow-up is expected.