Case number# PHHY2014FR142528, is an initial spontaneous report from a physician (pediatric neurologist) via 
other pharmaceutical (Biogen Inc, BI098834) received on 22 Oct 2014. This report refers to a 16 years old male 
patient. Current condition familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (mainly neurological form diagnosed in Dec 
2009). The patient had a contraindication (NOS) to bone marrow transplantation. Historical drug included 
chemotherapy composed of Endoxan (cyclophosphamide) at first. Concomitant medication included Vepside 
(etoposide), Carboplatin (paraplatin), cisplatin (manufacturer unknown) and corticoids (NOS). (Deatils regarding 
whether some of the treatment were given together were not provided). The patient also received Neoral 
(ciclosporin) for the treatment of off label use (off label use) from an unknown start date at a dose of unknown dose
(unknown).  Details regarding whether some of the treatments were given together were not provided. Due to poor 
results (therapeutic response decreased) after the treatments it was decided, in a collegial way, to treat the patient 
with Tysabri. Testing included the patient testing positive for anti (JCV) John Cunningham virus antibodies (date 
unknown) prior to initiating Tysabri. The patient received Tysabri (natalizumab) infusion for the indication of familial 
haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (off label use) from 15 Jul 2013 at the dose of 300 mg, IV, QM (off label use 
as patient was under 18 treated with Tysabri (intentional by healthcare professional). During this therapy, as there 
was no hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis relapse, Neoral (cyclosporine) and corticoids (NOS) were decreased. 
The treatment with Tysabri was discontinued in Jun 2014 after 1 year of treatment due to progressive multifocal 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 2 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
leukoencephalopathy (PML) (Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy), risk factors of immunosuppressive 
treatment, concomitant immunosuppressive treatment, and positive anti JCV antibodies (JC virus test positive); 
however, clinical and radiological (MRI) improvement seen. In Sep 2014, (3 months after Tysabri therapy was 
discontinuation) the presented with hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis relapse (two relapses) (Familial 
hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis) characterized by motor disorders and very unusual cognitive damage. On (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  the patient presented with ideomotor functions slowing (motor dysfunction), vomiting and cephalgia 
(headache) which presumed symptoms of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML suspicion), which lead
to hospitalization on (b) (6)  The patient had general psychomotor slowdown (psychomotor 
retardation),  motor damage (motor dysfunction), extensive myelitis (myelitis), cerebellar damage (cerebellar 
atrophy), Epstein Barr virus (EBV) cell proliferation (Epstein Barr virus associated lymphoproliferative disorder), 
secondary macrophage activation syndrome (histiocytosis haematophagic), paraplegia, neurogenic bladder, 
psychomotor retardation and CSF lymphocyte count increased (significant lymphoid cell population). An MRI on (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  showed no new lesion compared to the previous MRI performed in Jun 2014 (at the time of Tysabri 
discontinuation) and also compared to the last MRI performed in 2013. It did not show any radiologic sign of either 
tumoral evolution or leucoencephalitis. However there was clinical and radiological (MRI) improvement. Since (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  the patient had recovered from the functional symptoms, but cognitive slowing persisted. On (b) (6)  
 the patient was discharged. The patient had lumbar puncture (2 lumbar punctures): One on (b) (6)
where CSF test revealed significant lymphoid cell population and hyperproteinorachy at 2.39 g/l (normal range: 0.15
to 0.45) (CSF protein increased) with significant lymphoid cell population and a second lumbar puncture on 01 Oct 
2014 for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) John Cunningham virus (JCV) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing at 
(b) (6)  since CSF JCV PCR testing at local lab was negative from a local laboratory 
(where PCR testing done for other neurotropic viruses (NOS).  The status of patient improved with corticoids (NOS)
and Neoral (cyclosporine) (current treatment). The treatment with Neoral was ongoing. Although the medical staff 
was not too anxious, they wanted to formally rule out any opportunistic infections persisted due to therapeutic 
context. Therefore new JCV PCR testing at (b) (6)  was requested. On 15 Oct 2014, JCV PCR revealed negative from 
a local laboratory as did PCR testing for other neurotropic viruses (NOS). On 01 Oct 2014, MRIs performed did not 
show any radiologic sign of either tumoral evolution or leucoencephalitis. At the time of this report, the pediatric 
neurologist noted that the patient was currently hospitalized. Testing and treatment for the events were not 
reported.  At the time of this report, the patient was on Neoral (cyclosporine) therapy. It was planned that the patient
will be administered Tysabri again. The outcome of the event Familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, Motor 
dysfunction and cognitive disorder was unknown and progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy was condition 
unchanged (ongoing) and JC virus test positive was recovered however outcome of other events was not reported. 
The event familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy, psychomotor 
retardation, myelitis, cerebellar atrophy, motor dysfunction, cognitive disorder, paraplegia, neurogenic bladder, 
vomiting, headache, macrophage activation syndrome, JC virus test positive, CSF protein increased, CSF 
lymphocyte count increased, Epstein Barr virus associated lymphoproliferative disorder considered as serious 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 3 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(hospitalization) by physician. The causality for the event PML suspicion was assessed as related with regards to 
Tysbri however not reported the causality of event with regards to Neoral by physician. The causality of event 
therapeutic response decreased was assessed as suspected by physician. The causality of the other events was 
not reported.