Published Literature
Case Report
Events: Malignant lymphoma, Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), JC virus 
Patient: 57-year-old female.  Chief complaint: Abnormal sensation in left half of body, difficulty seeing on left side, 
difficulty walking.  Previous history: Psittacosis at age 48, cryptogenic organising pneumonia at age 56.  Lifestyle 
history: No smoking, no drinking, no overseas travel.  Family history: Nothing in particular to note.
History of present illness: The patient began to develop coughing in June 2010, and was diagnosed with 
cryptogenic organising pneumonia based on the results of a transbronchial lung biopsy conducted at Hospital A. 
The symptoms promptly improved upon administration of steroids. 75 mg of azathioprine was added in November 
the same year, and the patient's condition was stable for about six months. 1 mg of tacrolimus was added in July 
2011 due to exacerbation of the pulmonary lesions, but improvement was meagre and in mid-October the same 
year the patient began to experience wobbling while walking. She then began to complain of abnormal sensations 
on the left half of her body and had difficulty seeing on the left side, so an MRI of the head was performed in early 
November. Widespread signal abnormalities in the cerebral white matter were observed on both sides, and the 
patient was referred to the Department of Neurology at Hospital B. Tacrolimus and azathioprine were discontinued, 
and a steroid pulse therapy and cyclophosphamide pulse therapy were added. However, the patient's neurological 
symptoms did not improve, so she was admitted to this department in (b) (6)
Present illness on admission: Body temperature 36.5 degrees C, blood pressure 133/97 mmHg, pulse 86 beats per 
minute (bpm), regular. No other noteworthy general physical findings were observed. Consciousness level JCS I-1, 
anomia, ideational apraxia, ideomotor apraxia, left hemispatial neglect, left asomatognosia, left homonymous 
hemianopia, and scanning speech were observed. In the motor system, mild muscle weakness in the lower left 
extremity and impaired motor coordination in the four extremities were observed, but there was no distinct bilateral 
difference. A detailed assessment of the patient's senses was difficult; the patient had increased tendon reflexes in 
the four extremities, with no bilateral difference observed. Swaying in upright movement and gait was observed, 
and the patient required assistance.
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 558 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Laboratory findings: Blood testing revealed a significantly lowered leukocyte count of 5,530/mcL, lymphocyte count 
of 276/mcL, cluster of differentiation (CD)4 count of 6/mcL, and CD8 count of 10/mcL. Blood biochemistry revealed 
elevated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) at 454 IU/L, beta 2-microglobulin at 2.46 mg/L, and KL-6 at 1,675 U/mL. 
Autoantibody-associated values were rheumatoid factor (RF) at 302.3 IU/mL, anti-SS-A antibodies at 90.3 I.D., anti-
SS-B antibodies at 64.8 I.D., and PR3-Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) at 9.4 U/mL. Tumour-
associated values revealed a mild elevation of neuron-specific enolase (NSE) at 17.2 ng/mL and cytokeratin 
fragment (CYFRA) at 5.0 ng/mL, but no SIL-2R elevation was observed. In terms of infectious diseases, the patient 
was negative for HIV-1/2 antibodies, positive for cytomegalovirus (CMV) antigen, and had elevated beta-D-glucan 
at 12.70 pg/mL. Cerebrospinal fluid examination revealed no elevated cell counts, but elevated protein at 80 mg/dL 
and beta 2-microglobulin at 5.27 mcg/mL; however, culture tests and cytodiagnosis were negative.
Imaging findings: The MRI of the head performed on admission revealed many high T2WI/FLAIR signal regions 
centred around the right middle cerebellar peduncle, subcortical white matter of the right parietal lobe, splenium of 
corpus callosum etc. The central region of the lesion in the right parietal lobe exhibited a low DWI signal and 
elevated ADC. Susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI) revealed hardly any veins in the same lesion. The lesion in 
the splenium of corpus callosum revealed a high DWI signal and lowered ADC. No contrast effects were observed 
in these lesion sites. A CT of the chest revealed many infiltrative shadows in both lungs. No accumulation was 
observed in the cerebral lesions in an fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) scan; 
conversely, accumulation was relatively decreased. FDG accumulation was observed in the multiple infiltrating 
lesions in the lung fields, with an elevated SUV max of 15.4. Accumulation was also observed in the left pharyngeal 
tonsil, upper left deep cervical lymph node, and spleen. A transbronchial lung biopsy of the lower left lobe revealed 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma findings.
Course: Besides prior cryptogenic organising pneumonia, the patient's lung lesions were also differentiated from 
conditions such as Sjogren's syndrome, Wegener's granulomatosis, cytomegalovirus, and fungal infection. 
Pathological results led to a diagnosis of malignant lymphoma. It was believed to be a secondary malignancy that 
onset from an immunocompromised state due to immunosuppressive agents. The cerebral lesions were also 
differentiated from fungal infection and malignant lymphoma, but the possibility of PML was considered based on 
the cerebrospinal fluid examination findings and imaging findings. An explanation was provided to the patient's 
family, and their consent was obtained to start administration of mefloquine in early December (initial dosage of 275
mg/day  3 days, 275 mg/week from the following week; nasogastric tube). The patient's cerebrospinal fluid was 
provided to the National Institute of Infectious Diseases the following November for JC virus (V)-DNA testing, which
revealed that she was positive for the JCV Large T gene and JCV VP1 gene, with JCV-DNA assay (Large T): 
4,556,250 copies/mL and a prominent increase in viral load. The patient was diagnosed with probable PML. 
However, since worsening of the patient's respiratory condition associated with exacerbation of the pulmonary 
lesions was also observed, CHOP therapy was performed in late December. Although the patient's pulmonary 
Print Time: 24-MAY-2016 07:56 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 559 of 570
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
lesions and respiratory condition improved, her neurological symptoms also progressed, resulting in JCV increasing
to 72,000,000 copies/mL. Mefloquine was increased in February (to 550 mg/week), but the patient remained 
decorticate, and the abnormal MRI signal in the head continued to enlarge. Although she was transferred to 
Hospital A in mid-March, her malignant lymphoma exacerbated and she died in (b) (6)  An autopsy was not 
approved.
Authors' Comments:
A 57-year-old woman presented with higher brain dysfunction under treatment for cryptogenic organising 
pneumonia with immunosuppressive agents. White-matter lesions that were not contrast-enhanced were observed.
Susceptibility-weighted imaging showed attenuated contrast of the veins in the focus, and F-FDG-PET revealed 
decreased uptake in the cerebral lesions and increased uptake in multifocal lung involvements. Lung biopsy 
findings were consistent with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. JC Virus DNA in the cerebrospinal fluid yielded positive
results. Based on these findings, the present case was given a diagnosis of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). The patient was treated with mefloquine, but her respiratory condition deteriorated and
chemotherapy was required to prevent further deterioration. The efficacy of mefloquine in patients with non-HIV-
associated PML warrants further investigation.
In the present case, the major cause is believed to be that the patient's respiratory condition exacerbated and 
CHOP therapy had to be selected, resulting in further immunosuppression and no elevation of CD4, so progression
could not be inhibited. It is also interesting to note that there are many reports from Japan on the success of 
mefloquine.