AER 1491317 is a spontaneous case, received on 13/Nov/2014 from a physician, and concerns a 83 year female 
patient who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) while being treated with rituximab 
(Mabthera), methotrexate and denosumab.
The patient's medical history included JC virus infection. Her medical history was negative for immunodeficiency, 
chronic viral infection, HIV, bone marrow or solid bone transplant, Herpes Simplex, Herpes Zoster, CMV 
pneumocystic Carinii pneumonia and known CNS pathology. Her concurrent condition included hypertension and 
concomitant medications included prednisolone, cholecalciferol, pantoprazole sodium, dipyrone, lisinopril and 
torasemide. No past drugs were reported. She did not have any progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy prior 
to the start of rituximab. 
In Jan/2009, she started therapy with subcutaneous methotrexate, 20mg, once in a week for rheumatoid arthritis. In
Feb/2010, she started therapy with intravenous rituximab, 2x1g once in 6 months  for rheumatoid arthritis. In 
Mar/2014, rituximab was discontinued. On 30/Sep/2014, she received denosumab, 60mg once in a month for 
osteoporosis. On 06/Oct/2014, she experienced speech disorder. On (b) (6)  she developed fatal progressive
multifocal leukoencephalopathy and on (b) (6)  she was hospitalized. In course of hospitalization she 
presented with sign and symptoms of confusion, worsening of aphasia, hemiparesis and dysphagia. In (b) (6)  
therapy with methotrexate was discontinued. Her cranial computed tomography revealed extensive confluent signal
increase, periventricular in semioval center, left temporal on both sides. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed 
white matter lesions like PML. On (b) (6)  CSF examination revealed acute pleocytosis with leukocytes at 
309/mcgl (99% of it were lymphocytes) and protein at 98 mg/dl. CSF cytology and flow cytometry showed no 
evidence of malignancy. CSFJC-Virus PCR was positive. PCR tests and antibody tests for HSV, VZV, EBV, CMV 
and Borrelia were negative. Later, she died due to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Autopsy was not 
performed.
At the time of death, it was not reported whether therapy with denosumab was ongoing or not. 
The physician assessed causality of  fatal progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as related to rituximab but 
unknown with methotrexate and denosumab. 
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per Genentech's 
Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML.
No further information was provided
Additional follow up information was received on 02/Dec/2014. The following information was added to the case: 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 37 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Patient detail updated; Suspect drugs added (Methotrexate and denosumab); Suspect drug details updated; 
Concomitant drug added; Narrative updated, Lab test added.
Additional information received on 09/Feb/2015. Following information was added to the case: start date of 
rituximab was confirmed as Feb/2010 , its indication as rheumatoid arthritis with vasculitis and event description 
was added.
Additional information was received on 10/Nov/2015 and following information was added to the case: Reporter 
was contacted several times via letter and phone regarding the PML patient alert card GQ, however no further 
information for this case was received until now.