Based on the follow-up information received on 06-Nov-2014, the case was upgraded to serious as serious events 
of mental status isn't good/poor mental status and chest infection were added.
This initial solicited case from United States was received on 11-Feb-2014 from the patient via MS one to one 
nurse.
This case concerns a 69 years old female patient who experienced mental status isn't good/poor mental status, 
chest infection, will forget and my brain is just not all there, ear infection, sinus infection, URI, fatigue/tired, i don't 
have an immune system to fight, JC virus positive, poor balance, flu and a headache on the left side of her head, 
mass on her thyroid (originally found in 2012) has become larger and is now pushing on her oesophagus after 
unspecified duration of starting teriflunomide (Aubagio).
No concomitant medications were reported. Past treatment included amantadine, albumin 
human/glucose/interferon beta (Betaseron), glatiramer acetate (Copaxone), natalizumab (Tysabri) and dimethyl 
fumarate (Tecfidera).
On 01-Feb-2014, the patient started treatment with oral teriflunomide at a dose of 14 mg daily (form, lot/batch 
number and expiration date unknown) for multiple sclerosis. 
After unspecified duration of starting teriflunomide, on an unknown date in Feb-2014 she experienced a headache 
on the left side of her head. Patient self-treated with sumatriptan (Imitrex) and headache went away and had not 
returned. Patient has a history of migraine headaches on the right side of her head but has never had one on the 
left side before. On an unknown date, the patient had a cold and was diagnosed with flu. The patient reported that 
she would forget and her brain was just not all there. On an unknown date, she was coughing. She reported that 
she was up and was not doing that. She reported that if she to take the test for the JC Virus and was negative, 
could she go back on natalizumab. She never got sick on the natalizumab. On an unknown date, she developed 
ear and sinus infection and now it was in her chest. On an unknown date, she had colds and had URI. She just felt 
that her MS was better, she just had a couple small episodes, with poor balance. The patient reported that on an 
unknown dare, her mental status was not good either. On an unknown date, she tested positive for JC Virus. She 
was fatigued, tired and had poor mental status; she could not fight it off. She reportedly did not have an immune 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 26 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
system to fight.
The patient experienced that a mass on her thyroid (originally found in 2012 and was the size of a silver dollar in 
2012) had become larger and was about the size of a lemon and was now pushing on her esophagus (onset and 
latency; unknown). About a month ago, the patient had an MRI which revealed that a mass on her thyroid had 
become larger. The patient stated she had a follow-up appointment on 22-Oct-2015 to determine further 
action/treatment plan. 
Action taken: No Action Taken
Corrective treatment: sumatriptan (Imitrex). 
Outcome: Recovering for she experienced a headache on the left side of her head, not resolved for mass on her 
thyroid (originally found in 2012) has become larger and is now pushing on her oesophagus, and unknown for rest 
of events
Reporter causality; not reported
Company causality; not associated for mass on her thyroid (originally found in 2012) has become larger and is now 
pushing on her oesophagus and associated for rest of the events
The case was assessed as serious as the events of mental status isn't good/poor mental status and chest infection 
were medically significant.
Additional information was received from the patient on 06-Nov-2014:
Case was upgraded to serious. Additional events of mental status isn't good/poor mental status, chest infection, will
forget and my brain is just not all there, ear infection, sinus infection, URI, fatigue/tired, i don't have an immune 
system to fight, JC virus positive, poor balance and flu were added. Past treatment was added. Text was amended 
accordingly.
Follow-up information was received on 19-Oct-2015.
Thyroid mass added as an event. Text was updated accordingly.