Initial information regarding serious solicited case from United States was received to patient support program 
involving teriflunomide via a consumer (Patient) on 04-Nov-2014.
This case concerns a 53-year-old female patient (patient id-(b) (6) ) who cannot see anything from right eye, 
could not walk,  tested positive for the JC virus, developed brain lesion, she was forgetting everything, could not 
coordinate things in her mind, had frequently falls, experienced see a little from left eye and tingling on right leg 
unknown durations after receiving teriflunomide (Aubagio).
Past drug- interferon beta-1a (Avonex), interferon beta-1a (Rebif), glatiramer acetate (Copaxone) and natalizumab 
(Tysabri) for ms.
On 31-OCT-2014 patient started to received oral teriflunomide at a dose 14 mg once a day (lot/batch no. and expiry
date not provided) for multiple sclerosis. On an unknown date patient stated that she developed tingling on her right
leg on the first day she took teriflunomide. This issue had been resolved. Patient stated that her doctor d/c Tysabri 
because she tested positive for the JC virus. She was taking oxybutynin hydrochloride  (Ditropan) and levetiracetam
(Keppra).  Stated that she had convulsions in the past but she was currently stable. The patient stated that she had 
lesions on her brain. Patient stated that she could not walk, had tingling on her left leg and use a cane and a walker
for ambulation. She cannot see anything from her right eye and was able to see a little from my left eye. The patient
stated that she needed to go and see doctor because she did not have more refills for the other medications she 
took. It was reported that since unknown dates in 2014, the patient she was forgetting everything, could not 
coordinate things in her mind and had frequently falls and therefore the teriflunomide was stopped on 18-Dec-2014.
Action Taken with study drug teriflunomide: No Action Taken.
Outcome - recovered for tingling on right leg, Unknown for all 
Reporter causality assessment: the investigator considers the event - Not Reported
Company causality:   Sanofi-Aventis considers the event - Associated
Seriouness criteria-vision loss (Medically Significant).
Follow up was received on 18-Nov-2014 from consumer via patient support program: It was reported that patient 
was contacted for follow up and her mother stated that patient could not take the call because she was waiting to 
have an MRI done.
Additional information was received on 26-Nov-2014 from the patient via (b) (6)  nurse.
The patient stated that she needed to go and see doctor because she did not have more refills for the other 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 30 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
medications she took. Text was amended accordingly.
Additional information was received on 19-Dec-2014 from the patient via (b) (6)  nurse.
Events added- forgetfulness, lack of coordination and fall.
Therapy was closed.
Information on past drug was updated.
Text was amended accordingly.