06-Nov-2014, Spontaneous, Literature Serious report (Local #ISR091120140117981). (Report duplicates -
ASTELLAS: 699)
This case has been reported by Teva IL partner - Astellas:
This case concerns a 48-Years-old Male patient who received MYCOPHENOLIC ACID (Product cannot be 
excluded as a Teva product), Prograf (TACROLIMUS, Product cannot be excluded as a Teva product), prednisone 
(not Teva's product).
Case Description: Information was received on 01-Nov-2014. This is an unsponsored study, published case 
reported by a health professional referring to a 48 year-old male patient who experienced progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) during Prograf (tacrolimus) treatment for graft versus host disease
(GVHD) (off label use).
The patient was enrolled in (b) (6)
Citations Included
- Avivi I, Wittman T, Henig I, Kra-Oz Z, Szwarcwort Cohen M, Zuckerman T, et al. Development of multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy in patients undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation-can preemptive detection of john 
cunningham virus be useful? International Journal of Infectious Diseases. 2014; vol. 26; pp. 107-9.
Other suspect drugs used were mycophenolate mofetil, unknown dose and unknown frequency, for GVHD starting 
from an unspecified date and prednisone, unknown dose and unknown frequency, for GVHD starting from an 
unspecified date.
Historical Condition included advanced non-Hodgkin's lymphoma; and Procedure included reduced intensity 
matched sibling allograft stem cell transplant.
No concomitant medication information was provided.
The patient received tacrolimus for GVHD (off label use) according to the following dosage regimen: (start date not 
provided) - (stop date not provided): Unknown dose, unknown frequency.
On an unspecified date 188 days post stem cell transplant, the patient developed confusion, disorientation, and 
ataxia and was diagnosed with PML. 
Despite administration of liposomal cidofovir and immunosuppression withdrawal, the patient continued to 
deteriorate (despite an initial four fold reduction in his John Cunningham virus (JCV) load in peripheral blood after 
immunosuppression withdrawal) and died within less than(b)(6)  months after the PML diagnosis due to PML. 
No death certificate or autopsy report was provided.
No lab test information was provided.
Unspecified date: Magnetic resonance imaging showed typical progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
brain lesions (diffuse subcortical lesions characterized by hyperintense areas in T2-weighted images)
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 19 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Unspecified date: Blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) test positive for John Cunningham virus (JCV)
Tacrolimus treatment stop date was not provided.
The outcome Prograf for GVHD was not reported.
The authors assessed the following events with respect to tacrolimus:
- PML (seriousness: Death; causality: Possible)
- Prograf for graft versus host disease (seriousness: Not reported; causality: Not Assessed)
Sender Comment (Astellas): Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy has been reported with tacrolimus use, 
so in agreement with the authors, causality for this fatal event is assessed as possibly related. Off label use is not 
serious and not related per convention, as it is the result of human action.
Relevant Tests:
Unspecified date: Magnetic resonance imaging showed typical progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
brain lesions (diffuse subcortical lesions characterized by hyperintense areas in T2-weighted images). 
Unspecified date: Blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) test positive for John Cunningham virus (JCV). 
Unspecified date after withdrawal of immunosuppression: Peripheral blood JCV load decreased four fold.
Report Source Literature:
Journal: International Journal of Infectious Diseases
Author: Avivi I, Wittman T, Henig I, Kra-Oz Z, Szwarcwort Cohen M, Zuckerman T, et al.
Title: Development of multifocal leukoencephalopathy in patients undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation-
can preemptive detection of john cunningham virus be useful?
Volume: 26 Year: 2014 Pages: 107-9.
This case was considered serious based on the following criteria: (Death, Other Serious (Important Medical 
Events))
Teva Comment:  PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY is possibly related to 
TACROLIMUS; MYCOPHENOLIC ACID.  Off label use is not causally related to the suspect drugs.
Because this is a spontaneous case, regulatory distribution will be handled as though it is a related case.