A neurologist spontaneously reported that a  47 year old male patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for relapsing 
remitting Multiple Sclerosis from Jan 2012 to 17 Oct 2014 was hospitalized from (b) (6)  for progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (onset (b) (6) ). The patient's prior multiple sclerosis therapy included Rebif 
(interferon beta-1a) from Dec 2010 to Jan 2012. Escalation to Tysabri was performed due to severe impairment of 
neuroradiologic findings. The patient had received a total of 37 doses of TYSABRI infusion from Jan 2012 to 17 Oct
2014. The patient presented at the hospital with severely impaired attention, concentration and memory. Brain MRI 
on (b) (6)  showed PML lesions as well as multiple MS lesions with contrast medium uptake (scans or the 
related records not provided). Anti JCV antibodies were tested on 18 Oct 2014 positive with index of 2.678. JCV 
DNA PCR was done from the serum sample taken on (b) (6)  and the result was 1230 copies. JCV DNA PCR 
was done from the CSF sample taken on (b) (6)  and the result was low positive with 155 copies   Treatment 
included methylprednisolone (1000 mg, IV) for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. The patient also 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 13 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
received plasmapheresis with first cycle on (b) (6)  and fifth and last cycle on (b) (6)  The event of 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy is ongoing. The causality for the event of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy was assessed as possibly related.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued.
Update 04 Nov 2014: The same neurologist spontaneously reported that patient presented signs of IRIS (onset 
unknown). PML lesions seen on the recent MRI were increased (not specified). The clinical picture in this patient is 
characteristic for frontal lobe disorder. The outcome of IRIS was unknown. The causality for the event IRIS was not 
assessed. No further information was provided.
Update 09 Nov 2014: A professor of neurologist from the hospital spontaneously reported via a Biogen Idec 
employee (a field force) that the patient had presented severe cognitive impairment accompanied by cerebellar 
syndrome. The patient was clinically stable at the time of this report. Brain MRI at 7 Tesla was performed on an 
unknown date and the results were not provided. No further information was provided.
Update 26 Nov 2014: The professor of neurologist spontaneously reported via a Biogen Idec employee (Medical 
Science Liaison) that the patient recovered from IRIS and is clinically stable at the moment. The patient will be 
transferred to a rehabilitation facility in the near future.
Update 25 Mar 2015: Follow-up information received from the neurologist indicated the patient had experienced 
deterioration of his symptoms two or three weeks after the PML diagnosis. Currently, the patient was in the 
rehabilitation facility.
Update 02 Apr 2015: Biogen considers this case high suspect for PML and final call due to lack of MRI evidence; 
additional follow-up is not expected until physician publishes this case.
Update 06 Nov 2015: Additional information was received from the literature. The article written by Sinnecker T, 
Othman J, Kuhl M, Mekle R, Selbig I, Niendorf T et al. and titled "7T MRI in natalizumab-associated PML and 
ongoing MS disease activity: A case study. Neurology: Neuroimmunology & Neuroinflammation" provided further 
information regarding the patient. The authors noted that after switching from interferon b-1a to NTZ (TYSABRI), 
previous clinical and MRI disease activity ceased and twice yearly MRI's did not show any evidence of disease 
activity until the 37th infusion. Within three days after the 37th administration of NTZ, cognitive deficits, uncontrolled
emotional expressions, disorientation, and inappropriate behavior developed rapidly.  In the initial 1.5T MRI on day 
one immediately after referral, the author observed PML suspicious confluent lesions in the cerebellum and the 
supratentorial bilateral frontal and parietal white matter . Due to suspected PML, NTZ was discontinued and 5 
cycles of plasma exchange started (day 1). PCR testing of CSF was positive for JC virus (155 copies per milliliter), 
and the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score was 4.5. A 7T MRI was performed on day 4. The time 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 14 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
lapse between the initial scans at 1.5T and at 7T was caused by organizational issues and may limit the 
comparison between these two scans especially regarding the patterns of contrast enhancement. 7T MRI on day 4 
revealed different patterns of brain parenchymal damage. First, diffuse rim-like, perilesional contrast enhancement 
atypical of MS was observed around some PML-suspicious confluent lesions in the bilateral frontoparietal white 
matter. The authors stated that these changes were presumably related to IRIS. Second, five ring-enhancing 
lesions were observed in the right periventricular white matter. Each of these lesions was characterized by a central
vein and mild perifocal edema, and one lesion presented signal loss on SWI, e.g., resulting from central iron 
deposits or severe demyelination. These ring-enhancing lesions were classified as acute MS lesions in accordance 
with previous reports on characteristic MS lesion morphology imaged by 7T MRI. Finally, 567 small punctate or 
milky way like lesions were visualized predominantly in the right centrum semiovale on high-resolution 7T T2W 
images. Of these, only 173 lesions (31%) exhibited a central vein at an ultrahigh in-plane resolution of 0.2 3 0.2 
mm2 that was much smaller than a typical vein within the center of an MS lesion. Contrast-enhanced 7T T1W 
imaging showed corresponding areas of punctate contrast enhancement that were not fully detectable in the initial 
MRI scans at 1.5T. Due to suspected IRIS, corticosteroid pulse therapy with methylprednisolone was administered 
on day 4 when the patient presented with clinical worsening. 7T and 3T MRI performed on day 11 visualized 
decreasing perilesional IRIS-like contrast enhancement. Notably, the size of these contrast-enhancing PML lesions,
which had probably been recognized by the immune system, remained stable, whereas PML lesions without 
peripheral contrast enhancement expanded significantly. Accordingly, some of these PML lesions presented with 
restricted diffusion at their edges (data not shown) as revealed by 3T MRI, which has been suggested as a sign of 
ongoing PML.  In response, antiviral therapy with mirtazapine, mefloquine, ribavirin, amantadine was initiated but 
clinical symptoms worsened (EDSS 8.5), and the patient developed complex partial seizures. Concurrently, PCR on
CSF revealed a high number of JC virus DNA copies (7,186 copies per milliliter), and the JC virus antibody index 
was 5.43 on day 19. Next, 7T MRI and 3T MRI including proton spectroscopy were performed on day 24. As 
expected, contrast enhancement of all ring-enhancing MS lesions ceased after high-dose corticosteroid therapy, 
and the MS lesion size remained stable, whereas PML lesions continued to grow centrifugally. Notably, punctate or 
milky way like lesions that were detectable on the initial 7T MRI in the right hemisphere had amalgamated into one 
large, confluent PML lesion during corticosteroid therapy. Proton spectroscopy in a PML lesion and an exemplary 
MS lesion of almost the same age revealed significantly reduced N-acetylaspartate (NAA), choline, and creatine 
levels and elevated lipids in the center of the PML lesion indicating ongoing necrosis. In contrast, the MS lesion 
presented with only moderately decreased levels of NAA. Hence, PML may cause destructive brain tissue damage 
much more rapidly than MS-related inflammation. 1.5 T MRI follow-up at day 34 did not reveal new or enlarging 
PML lesions, clinical symptoms began to improve with an EDSS of 6.0, JC virus DNA in CSF decreased to 828 
copies per milliliter, and neutralizing antibodies against NTZ were not detectable.
Update 12 Nov 2015: PML was confirmed based on positive CSF, consistent radiological findings, and clinical 
symptoms.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 15 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information