Initial information regarding this serious unsolicited case from Germany was received on 14-Nov-2014 from 
neurologist.
This case was cross referenced with case ID: 2014SA161968 (duplicate, this case will be deleted).
This case involves an 83 year old female patient who had experienced progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy 
(actually only affection of cerebellum) (05 months after), nausea (due to positional vertigo), vomiting (due to 
positional vertigo) and diarrhoea unspecified time frame after receiving treatment with leflunomide (Arava).
The patient was diagnosed with mamma carcinoma (left) diagnosed 1999, underwent hysterectomy and adnectomy
(left) along with carcinoma 1971, had arterial hypertension and cholecystolithiasis. Concomitant medications 
included cortisone for rheumatoid arthritis, colecalciferol (Dekristol), amlodipine, candesartan, pentaerithrityl 
tetranitrate (Pentalong) and omeprazole (Omep). No past drugs were reported.
On an unknown date in May-2014, the patient commenced treatment with film coated tablet of leflunomide (dose, 
route, frequency, lot/batch number and expiry date: unknown) for severe rheumatoid arthritis. The drug was not 
taken before.
(b) (6)  months later, in (b) (6)  the patient experienced progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy with 
involvement of cerebellum. The reaction disabled her in her daily life. She was hospitalized on (b) (6)
Additional symptoms like personality change or mood change, sudden change in cognitive behavior (e.g. confusion,
disorientation), speech or  language disorder (e.g. aphasia or dysarthria), impaired vision, ataxia/loss of motoric 
coordination/progressive weakness were observed.  Brain CT was performed on (b) (6)  result were not 
available.  Therapy with leflunomide was discontinued on (b) (6)  due to continuing diarrhea (latency for 
diarrhea: unknown). Subsequent therapy with prednisolone and methotrexate sodium (MTX) was started.  MRT 
was performed on (b) (6)  and it showed T2 interval increased in cerebellum/midbrain.  In comparison to(b) (6)
(b) (6)  progression, diagnosis was made. Due to short-term progressive course diagnosis of increase of 
cerebellar leukoencephalopathy of medullary layer was made, causative paraneoplastic differential diagnosis drug 
associated. Unchanged moderate leukoencephalopatic changes of supratentorial medullary layer were observed. 
No acute ischemia was found. Unchanged low mesencephal and cerebellar atrophia was observed. 
Patient was again hospitalized on(b) (6) .
According to hospital report, the patient was diagnosed with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) with
ataxia, dysarthria and dizziness.  Pre-existing diseases were sero-negative and CCP-antibody negative rheumatoid 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 89 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
arthritis.
On (b) (6)  CRP was 70.35 mg/L (reference range <5), on (b) (6)  CRP was 9.65 mg/L, on (b) (6)
CRP was 18.04 mg/L and JC-virus-DNA, liquor was positive. On (b) (6)  CRP was 23.90 mg/L and on (b)(6)
(b) (6)  CRP was 40.76 mg/L. Cerebral MRT native and with contrast medium IV (standard) was also observed 
on (b) (6)   Progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy with involvement of cerebellum was confirmed by 
CSF PCR on 1(b) (6)  On (b) (6)  CRP was 34.77 mg/L. 
On an unknown date the patient was at neurological general ward. She made small steps with left leg and after 
further 3 days problems with speech occurred. No speech disorder before. Furthermore, positional vertigo with 
nausea and vomiting were seen in 2014 (date and latency: unknown).
Neurological investigation detected cerebellar syndrome pronounced on the left with ataxia, bradydiadochokinesic 
bilateral, saccadic eye movement, dysarthria with spontaneous deceleration of speech, slurred speech and missing
virtual pitch variation as well as positional vertigo with reactive nausea and vomiting. 
Laboratory and liquoratory investigations detected no indicatory pathological findings, especially the antineuronal 
antibodies were negative. No hints for prions disease (protein 14-3-3, NSE, S100b) (date: unknown). 
On an unknown date, trial of therapy with cortison pulse-therapy with methyl prednisolone (Urbason) 500 mg i.v. for 
5 day duration was started but it was without success. In the course, increased of the symptoms were observed. 
Again cMRT, where upon a PCM was seen in comparison to the preliminary cMRT result. In the background of 
immunosuppressive therapy with leflunomide, JC-virus-DNA in liquor was tested and found positive (date: 
unknown).
Due to missing activity of rheumatoid arthritis treatment with prednisolon and methotrexate sodium (MTX) was also 
discontinued.
Depressive syndrome occurred which was treated with citalopram 10 mg. Nausea was treated with domperidon, 
metoclopramid hydrochloride (Metoclopramide) or at insufficient effect with e.g. ondansetron. For dysarthria, 
dysphagia and cerebellar syndrome therapy with logo- and physiotherapeutic measures were done. On an 
unknown date, laboratory test showed PML with affection of cerebellum, JC-virus PCR was positive in liquor. Virus 
PCR in liquor was positive (date: unknown)
The patient was discharged from hospital on (b) (6)  Patient was currently on therapy with cortisone and 
MTX for rheumatoid arthritis.
Action taken: Permanently Discontinued.
Corrective treatment: physiotherapy measures for symptom "speech or language disorder (aphasia, dysarthria, 
decceleration of speech, slurred speech and missing virtual pitch variation)", cerebellar syndrome and 
domperidone, metoclopramide and ondansetron for the event of nausea.
Outcome: not recovered for all the events.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 90 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Reporter causality description: Probable.
Company causality: Possible.
The neurologist assessed the causal relationship between the reaction and Arava as probable.
Seriousness criteria: Life threatening, hospitalisation and disability.
Addendum 03-Feb-2015: Upon medical review of case at time of internal review on 04-Feb-2015 Medical 
reassessment was made to update the following in this case:
2014SA161968 needs to be deleted. Following additional information reported in this case has been incorporated in
the active case ID: 2014SA158649:
duplicate case ID added (2014SA161968), health authority was added as reporter (BFARM: DE-BFARM-
14354770), patient details added (height and weight), as reported for the event was updated from "progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy" to "progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy (actually only affection of 
cerebellum)" and event onset date was updated from "2014" to (b) (6)  symptoms for the event of progressive 
multifocal leucoencephalopathy were added (personality change, cognitive disorder, speech disorder, impaired 
vision, cerebellar ataxia, weakness, positional vertigo, cerebellar syndrome, dysdiadochokinesis, saccadic eye 
movement and motor dysfunction), new events were added (nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea), seriousness criteria 
was updated (from "Important Medical event" to "Life threatening, hospitalisation and disability"), action taken with 
leflunomide was updated (from "Drug Withdrawn NOS" to "Permanently Discontinued"), corrective treatment was 
added, medical history added (all), concomitant medication added (Dekristol, amlodipine, candesartan, Pentalong 
and Omep), lab tests were added and narrative was updated accordingly.