Initial Receipt Date = 14/Nov/2014
This serious regulatory authority report received from an other health professional refers to a 50 year old, adult 
female patient on Enbrel.
No other medical history was reported. Concomitant medications included Acetaminophen (paracetamol), atenolol, 
cetirizine hydrochloride, diphenhydramine hydrochloride, duloxetine hydrochloride, Medrol (methylprednisolone), 
methylprednisolone, Prevacid (lansoprazole), Vitamin E (tocopherol), and zopiclone. Co-suspect medication 
included Benadryl (diphenhydramine hydrochloride), Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid), esomeprazole magnesium with 
naproxen, Reactine (cetirizine hydrochloride), and Rituxan (rituximab).
The patient began unspecified Enbrel therapy on an unknown date. After an unspecified time frame, the patient 
developed adrenal insufficiency, arthralgia, balance disorder, cognitive disorder, coordination abnormal, cough, 
demyelination, depressed mood, depression, dizziness, drug ineffective, dry mouth, dysphagia, electric shock, 
fatigue, hyperhidrosis, hypotension, infusion related reaction, intervertebral discitis, multiple sclerosis, nausea, 
neuropathy peripheral, pain, post-traumatic stress disorder, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, 
rheumatoid arthritis, syncope, temperature intolerance, throat irritation, ulcer, and urticaria. No treatment 
information was reported. The outcome of the events adrenal insufficiency, arthralgia, balance disorder, cognitive 
disorder, coordination abnormal, cough, demyelination, depressed mood, depression, dizziness, drug ineffective, 
dry mouth, dysphagia, electric shock, fatigue, hyperhidrosis, hypotension, intervertebral discitis, multiple sclerosis, 
nausea, neuropathy peripheral, pain, post-traumatic stress disorder, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, 
rheumatoid arthritis, syncope, temperature intolerance, ulcer, and urticaria was ongoing. The outcome of events 
infusion related reaction and throat irritation was reported as resolved on an unknown date. At the time of this 
report, it was unknown if Enbrel was still being administered. Additional information was not provided.
For the events of adrenal insufficiency, arthralgia, balance disorder, cognitive disorder, coordination abnormal, 
cough, demyelination, depressed mood, depression, dizziness, drug ineffective, dry mouth, dysphagia, electric 
shock, fatigue, hyperhidrosis, hypo tension, infusion related reaction, intervertebral discitis, multiple sclerosis, 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 95 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
nausea, neuropathy peripheral, pain, post-traumatic stress disorder, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, 
rheumatoid arthritis, syncope, temperature intolerance, throat irritation, ulcer, and urticaria as reported causality for 
Enbrel was not provided by the other health professional.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RECEIVED ON 26/Apr/2016: This serious spontaneous report (CANSP2014090423)
was reported to Amgen on 26/Apr/2016 from a other health professional via (Canada Vigilance) E2B 00336365 and
involves a 50 year old, adult female patient who was on Enbrel. The patient began Enbrel subcutaneous (dose and 
frequency were mot provided) on an unknown date. After an unspecified time frame, the patient had drug 
ineffective, infusion related reaction, and throat irritation (Previously reported). No treatment information was 
provided. The outcome of the events drug ineffective, infusion related reaction and throat irritation was reported as 
ongoing.  At the time of this report, it was unknown if Enbrel was still being administered. Additional information was
not provided.
For the event of drug ineffective, as reported causality for Enbrel was provided as related by the other health 
professional. For the events infusion related reaction and throat irritation as reported causality for Enbrel was not 
provided by the other health professional.