AER 1492654 is a spontaneous literature case, reported by physician to Zenyaku Kogyo Co., LTD; Japan 
(1416480) on 10/Nov/2014 and received at Roche on 18/Nov/2014 and concerns a 58-year-old female patient who 
developed cryptococcus meningitis, septicemia and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy while taking 
rituximab.
Past medical history, concurrent conditions and concomitant medications were not reported. 
On 18/Feb/2014, the patient was diagnosed with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in the stomach and the right kidney.
On 27/Feb/2014, the patient receive the 1st cycle of rituximab (dose, frequency, route not reported) and 
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisolone (CHOP) (dose, frequency, route not reported) for the 
indication of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. On 01/Mar/2014, the patient developed fever. Blood and cerebrospinal 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 104 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
fluid (CSF) culture results revealed cryptococcus positive and the patient was diagnosed with cryptococcus 
meningitis with septicemia. The patient started to receive fluconazole for the event. After the event improved, the 
patient received the 2nd and 3rd cycles of R-CHOP. In May/2014, the patient complained of poor vision after the 
4th cycle of R-CHOP, and right homonymous hemianopia was confirmed. Head magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
showed lesions in the bilateral occipital lobes and the right frontal lobe, and on (b) (6) , the patient was 
admitted to the hospital for further examination. On (b) (6)  brain biopsy was performed since central nervous
system involvement of the primary disease and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) were considered
as differential diagnosis. Histopathological examination of the tissue revealed severe demyelination, and PML was 
suspected. On 16/Jun/2014, the patient began to receive mefloquine for suspected PML. On 30/Jun/2014, MRI 
revealed the spread of the lesions in the bilateral occipital lobes and the right frontal lobe and also a new lesion in 
the left frontal lobe. On 04/Jul/2014, JCV DNA was detected in CSF at 2871 copies/mL, and the patient was 
continuing the mefloquine treatment at the time of reporting.
There was insufficient information regarding the outcome for the events of cryptococcus meningitis, septicemia and
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and therapy ongoing status with rituximab.
The authors reported did not provide the causality between the events of cryptococcus meningitis, septicemia and 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy with rituximab.
No further information was available.
Daidoji H and etal.
A case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy that developed during the treatment for diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma.
The 608th Kanto Regional Regular Meeting of the Japanese Society of Internal Medicine 2014.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML