Report No 1 Received from US Consumer Relations, Date 21-NOV-2014, Reference No: R059020030.
Suspect Drug: Mucinex Unidentified Product (Unspecified Mucinex).
Dosing: Consumer was given half a dose of product.
Case reference number US-RB-070609-14 is a spontaneous case report sent by a consumer or other non health 
professional which refers to a female aged 10 years.
A reporter (Mother) stated that she gave her 10 year old female child only half a dose of Mucinex Unidentified 
Product on an unknown date for an unknown indication and child had several nose bleeds after about an hour. The 
reporter stated that child never had nose bleeds. The reporter also stated that she read the side effects and it does 
say could cause nose bleed but it was still upsetting for her.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 43 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The reaction was deemed serious by the company because it was classed as medically significant due to 
 Epistaxis .
The reporter's causality for the case is Possible. The reporting consumer or other non health professional's clinical 
assessment for drug MUCINEX UNIDENTIFIED PRODUCT [Unspecified Mucinex] is as follows: seriousness not 
provided with a relatedness of Possible.
The company's assessment for the case is serious, possible and unlisted.
No further information was available at the time of report.
Outcome: Unknown.
The case was received from facebook.
Reporter Assessment Narrative: The reporter's causality for the case is Possible. The reporting consumer or other 
non health professional's clinical assessment for drug MUCINEX UNIDENTIFIED PRODUCT [Unspecified 
Mucinex] is as follows: seriousness not provided with a relatedness of Possible.
01-MAR-2016 : Case downgrade from serious to non serious during ongoing benefit risk assessment,  cases was 
reviewed and re-evaluated by the internal  consumer safety review panel as non serious 01 03 2016