Addendum 03-Feb-2015: Upon medical review of case at time of internal review on 04-Feb-2015 case ID: 
2014SA161968 was found to be a duplicate of Case ID: 2014SA158649. Therefore case with Sanofi ID 
2014SA161968 needs to be deleted.
Initial information regarding this unsolicited serious case from Germany was received on 21-Nov-2014 from a 
healthcare professional via German Health Authority DEU-BFARM (DE-BFARM- authority number: 14354770).
This case involves an 83- year- old female patient who experienced progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy 
five months and  vomiting, diarrhea and vomiting, unknown duration after starting leflunomide (Arava).
The patient was diagnosed  with mamma carcinoma left diagnosed 1999, had rheumatoid arthritis, underwent 
hysterectomy and adnectomy left along with carcinoma 1971, had arterial hypertension, cholecystolithiasis. 
Concomitant medication included colecalciferol (Dekristol), amlodipine, candesartan, pentaerithrityl tetranitrate 
(Pentalong) and omeprazole (Omep). No past drugs were reported.
On an unknown date in May-2014, the patient commenced treatment with leflunomide film coated tablet (strength, 
dose, route, frequency, batch/lot number and expiry date: not provided) for rheumatoid arthritis. The drug was not 
taken before.
Five months later, In Oct-2014 (date: unknown), patient experienced progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy 
with involvement of cerebellum. The reaction disabled her in her daily life. She was hospitalized on (b) (6)
Additional symptoms like personality change or mood change, sudden change in cognitive behavior (e.g. confusion,
disorientation), speech  or  language disorder (e.g. aphasia or dysarthria), impaired vision, ataxia/loss of motoric 
coordination/progressive weakness were observed. 
Brain CT was performed on 09-Oct-2014: result were  not available. 
Therapy with leflunomide was discontinued on 10-Oct-2014 due to continuing diarrhea (latency for diarrhea: 
unknown). Subsequent therapy with prednisolon and methotrexate sodium (MTX).
MRT was performed on 21-Oct-2014: T2 interval increased in cerebellum/midbrain.  In comparison to 21-Oct-2014 
progression, diagnosis was made. Due to short-term progressive course diagnosis of increase of cerebellar 
leukoencephalopathy of medullary layer was made, causative paraneoplastic differential diagnosis drug associated.
Unchanged moderate leukoencephalopatic changes of supratentorial medullary layer were observed. No acute 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 132 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
ischemia was found. Unchanged low mesencephal and cerebellar atrophia was observed. 
Patient was again hospitalized on (b) (6)
According to hospital report, the patient was diagnosed with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) with
ataxia, dysarthria and dizziness. 
Pre-existing diseaseswere  sero-negative and CCP-antibody negative rheumatoid arthritis.
On (b) (6)  CRP was 70.35 mg/L (reference range <5), On (b) (6)  CRP was  9.65 mg/L, On (b) (6)
(b) (6)  CRP was 18.04 mg/L and JC-virus-DNA, liquor was  positive. On (b) (6)  CRP was 23.90 mg/L, On (b)(6)
(b) (6)  CRP was 40.76 mg/L. 
Cerebral MRT native and with contrast medium iv (standard) was also observed on (b) (6)
Progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy with involvement of cerebellum was confirmed by CSF PCR on (b)(6)
(b) (6)  On (b) (6)  CRP was  34.77 mg/L. 
On an unknown date the patient was at neurological general ward. She made small steps with left leg and after 
further 3 days problems with speech occurred. No speech disorder before. Furthermore, positional vertigo with 
nausea and vomiting were seen in 2014 (date and latency: unknown).
Neurological investigation detected cerebellar syndrome pronounced on the left with ataxia, bradydiadochokinesic 
bilateral, saccadic eye movement, dysarthria with spontaneous deceleration of speech, slurred speech and missing
virtual pitch variation as well as positional vertigo with reactive nausea and vomiting. 
Laboratory and liquoratory investigations detected no indicatory pathological findings, especially the antineuronal 
antibodies were negative. No hints for prions disease (protein 14-3-3, NSE, S100b) (date: unknown). 
On an unknown date, trial of therapy with cortison pulse-therapy with methyl prednisolone (Urbason) 500 mg i.v. for 
5 day duration was started but it was without success. In the course, increased of the symptoms were observed. 
Again cMRT, where upon  a PCM was seen in comparison to the preliminary cMRT result. 
In the background of immunosuppressive therapy with leflunomide, JC-virus-DNA in liquor was tested and found 
positive (date: unknown).
Due to missing activity of rheumatoid arthritis treatment with prednisolon and methotrexate sodium (MTX) was also 
discontinued.
Depressive syndrome occurred which was treated with citalopram 10 mg. 
Nausea was treated with domperidon, metoclopramid hydrochloride (Metoclopramide) or at insufficient effect with 
e.g. ondansetron. 
For dysarthria, dysphagia and cerebellar syndrome therapy with logo- and physiotherapeutic measures were done. 
On an unknown date, laboratory test showed PML with affection of cerebellum, JC-virus PCR was positive in liquor.
Virus PCR in liquor was positive (date: unknown)
The patient was discharged from hospital on (b) (6)
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 133 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Action taken: Drug withdrawn nos. (therapy stopped on 10-Oct-2014).
Corrective treatment: physiotherapy measures for symptom "speech or language disorder (aphasia, dysarthria, 
decceleration of speech, slurred speech and missing virtual pitch variation)", cerebellar syndrome and 
domperidone, metoclopramide and ondansetron for the event of nausea.
Outcome: Not recovered/ not resolved
Reporter Causality: Not reported
Seriousness criteria: life threatening and hospitalization.
Reporter causality description: Probable.
Company causality: Possible.
The neurologist assessed the causal relationship between the reaction and Arava as probable.
Follow up information was received on 20-Jan-2015:
-New events of vomiting, diarrhea and nausea were added.
-Latency for the event of progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy  was updated.
-New symptoms for the event of progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy  were added.
-Date of onset for the event of progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy  was added.
-Date of hospitalization was added.
-Action taken was updated.
-Medical history was added.
-Lab data was captured.
-Concomitant medications were added.
-Corrective treatment was added.
-Form of leflunomide was added.
-Age of the patient was updated.
-Weight and height of the patient were captured.
-Clinical course was updated.
-Narrative amended accordingly.
Addendum 03-Feb-2015: Upon medical review of case at time of internal review on 04-Feb-2015 Medical 
reassessment was made to update the following in this case:
2014SA161968 needs to be deleted. Additional information reported in this case has been incorporated in the 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 134 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
active case ID: 2014SA158649.