Case reference number DKLU1105815, is a spontaneous case received from a (b) (6)  representative on behalf of
the mother of the patient. Additional information was received from a pharmacist at a (b) (6)  specialty pharmacy 
on behalf of the caregiver of the patient. Additional information received from a health care professional. 
This case concerns an 11-month-old male who was administered Sabril (vigabatrin, strength 500 mg) Powder for 
oral solution, 750 mg PO BID for tuberous sclerosis on 14/Jul/2014. Additional information indicated the start date 
of Sabril as /Aug/2014.
Additional information indicated on an unknown date, after an unspecified duration on vigabatrin therapy, a 
diagnosis of intractable focal epilepsy was provided. 
On (b) (6)  (b) (6)  days after first dose of vigabatrin the patient experienced respiratory symptoms suggesting 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 24 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
croup and was hospitalized overnight. Additional information indicated the patient was treated with a rescue 
medication, Diastat. In addition, his hospital diagnoses included general symptoms, epilepsy, tuberous sclerosis, 
and seizures without myoclonus. The patient was discharged from the hospital on (b) (6)
On 14/Nov/2014, 123 days after first dose of vigabatrin the patient experienced prolonged seizure following fever.
On a not reported date, an unknown period  after first dose of vigabatrin the patient experienced intractable focal 
epilepsy.
Investigations and laboratory findings included EEG (date unknown): multifocal sharp and spike waves consistent 
with multiple tubules.
Sabril was ongoing. The patient was discharged with rescue medication (Diastat) with follow-up appointment 
scheduled in 2 months. 
The outcome of fever related seizure, respiratory symptoms suggesting croup, intractable focal epilepsy was 
unknown at time of reporting.
The outcome of intractable focal epilepsy was not available at time of reporting.
Concomitant medication included: Prednisone for unknown indication, Taurine for unknown indication, Diastat 
(diazepam) for seizures lasting greater than 5 minutes, cluster seizures, and Tylenol (paracetamol) for fever.
The medical history of the patient included: 
Epilepsy from an unknown date and ongoing, Tuberous Sclerosis from an unknown date and ongoing
The physician indicated the causality assessment as not related. 
If new relevant information is received, the case will be re-submitted.
LATEST FOLLOW-UP INFORMATION RECEIVED ON 19/Jan/2016.
The case has been updated with the following information:
- Event added
- Concomitant medication added
- Narrative updated accordingly
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 25 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information