AER 1498238 is a spontaneous case, received on 26/Nov/2014 from a physician via company representative and 
concerns a female patient (born in the fifties) who experienced life threatening progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) and died while being treated with rituximab (MabThera).
No medical history, concurrent conditions, past drugs or concomitant medications was reported.
On an unspecified date, the patient started rituximab (route, form, dose and frequency not reported) for rheumatoid 
arthritis. Later, she developed life threatening progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) after several 
years of treatment with rituximab. It was reported that the company representative advised the nurse to discontinue 
the treatment with rituximab. Later, on an unspecified date, she died (cause of death not reported). No additional 
details were provided. It was not reported, if an autopsy was performed or not. It was reported that, the patient did 
not receive the patient alert card. The physician has reported back that, his department had not implemented these 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 137 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
cards in their practice. They had received these according to our RMinA timelines, but they had not taken them in 
use and informed that, they have by now implemented these in their daily practice for the rituximab patients.
At the time of death, it was not reported whether the therapy with rituximab was ongoing or not.
The nurse did not provide the causality between the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and death with 
rituximab.
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 18/Aug/2015 and the following information was added to the case: New 
event death and the event description was updated.
Additional information was received on 27/Oct/2015 and the following information was added to the case: Event 
description (It was reported that, the patient did not receive the patient alert card. The physician has reported back 
that his department had not implemented these cards in their practice. They had received these according to our 
RMinA timelines, but they had not taken them in use and informed that they have by now implemented these in 
their daily practice for the rituximab patients) was updated.