Medically Significant
A neurologist spontaneously reported via a Biogen Idec Medical Science Liaison that a 34 year old female patient 
on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple Sclerosis from unknown date to 12 Apr 2014 was under evaluation for 
suspect PML (onset 23 Apr 2014).  The patient was on TYSABRI therapy for 36 months.  No particular clinical 
symptoms were reported, except for an increased irritability observed during the last month.  The patient's index 
value (presumed JCV index) from 13 Jun 2014 was 2.44.  An MRI performed on 23 Apr 2014 showed a significant 
increase in size and number (compared to the MRI performed on 20-Jan-2014) of hyperintense T2 areas and a 
mild peripheral enhancement of a deep frontal-parietal left periventricular lesion.  The patient was expected to 
undergo a lumbar puncture on 05 May 2014, and the treating neurologist asked to test a CSF sample at (b) (6)   
Treatment was initianted on 28 Apr 2014 and included Solu-Medrol (methylprednisolone) 1 gram IV for 5 days.  The
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 140 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
event is ongoing.  Causality for the event was not assessed by the neurologist.  TYSABRI therapy was 
discontinued.
Update 02 May 2014:  Additional information was provided by the neurologist.  The neurologist spontaneously 
reported via a Biogen Idec Medical Science Liaison that the patient was diagnosed with MS on 24 Dec 2002.
TYSABRI therapy was initiated on 19 May 2011.  Previous medications included Avonex (interferon beta-1a) from 
24 Apr 2003 to 22 Aug 2007, which was discontinued due to a pregnancy, and then Rebif (interferon beta-1a) from 
31-Jul-2009 up to 28-Mar-2011.  EDSS scores (unknown dates) before TYSABRI therapy, while on TYSABRI 
therapy, and when the suspect PML was reported was 2.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued on 14 Apr 2014 
(discrepant information).  No further information provided.
Update 23 May 2014:A neurologist reported,  via an MSL, that CSF results from (b) (6)  lab result was 
"undetected".
 The CSF sample at (b) (6)  labs was  tested twice.
Update 26 May 2014:This case received from the National Phamracovigilance Network of Italy  (ID 252286) The 
event was codified as Leucoencephalopathy multifocal progressive but in the "comment section" it was still reported
as suspect PML and the outcome was not available. TYSABRI therapy was discontinued and the treating 
neurologist was scheduling some additional exams in order to confirm or rule out such the diagnosis. The first 
TYSABRI  dose was administered on 19 May 2011 and the last one was administered on 14 Apr2014. The patient's
DOB was (b) (6)
In addition the treating neurologist reported via a MSL,  sent the  report of the last two MRIs along with the following
information: the treating neurologist will treat the patient with cortisone up to middle July 2014; he still suspects of 
PML diagnosis but is not scheduling any new test in order to detect JCV DNA in the CSF. The patient is clinically 
stable and showed just irritability.
"Brain and brainstem MRI with and without contrast medium performed on 20 Jan 2014: the current examination, 
affected by some movement artifacts, was performed before and after i.v. gadolinium chelates administration 
(Dottarem, 9 ml), compared to the previous exams performed on 16-Oct-2013 and 15-Jul 2013. It showed multiple 
demyelinating foci, unchanged in size and number, observed in the semioval centers white matter, in the 
pericallosal/callosal area, bilateral periventricular, right peritrigonal, in the occipital subcortical and left temporal 
area. None of the above described lesions showed enhancements in post-contrastographic phase.  No signal 
intensity alterations were observed in the subtentorial area both before and after IV. gadolinium chelates 
administration. The signal alteration previously described in the segment C2-C3 resulted observable in FLAIR only 
in the current exam (considering movement artifacts in the other sequences). The ventricular system resulted 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 141 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
regular as for volume and morphology with a mantained medial axis. The subarachnoidal spaces of the base and 
the vault resulted visible".
Brain and brainstem MRI with and without contrast medium administration performed on 23 Apr 2014: the current 
exam, compared to the previous one performed on 20 Jan 2014, showed an increase in size and number of the 
hyperintense alterations in the T2 dependent images already observed in the periventricular regions indicating 
demyelinating foci presence. The current exam seems to show a mild increase of the corpus callosum involvement.
After IV paramagnetic contrast medium administration (Dotarem 9 ml), a mild peripheral enchancement involves 
one of the largest lesions located in the deep fronto-parietal left periventrocular area. substantially the other findings
resulted unchanged along with a ventricular complex which appear regular in size and on the midline, considering 
the age. The subarachnoidal spaces of the base and the vault resulted within normal ranges. Conclusions: the 
current exam seems to show a disease progression.
Update 18 Jun 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist through the Medical Science Liaison.
The physician provided further patient identifiers including date of birth and patient initials. No further details were 
provided.
Update 17 Jul 2014:  An update was entered in the National Pharmacovigilance Network (ID: 252286) the Regional 
Centre (Centro Regionale Veneto) stated that the relationship between TYSABRI and PML, evaluated through 
Naranjo algorithm, is possible.
Update 25 Jul 2014:  The treating neurologist informed that the PML diagnosis was ruled out  and the probable final
diagnosis was a modest disease reactivation concerning the radiologic picture. The patient, at the reporting time, 
was "fine". The patient recovered from the increased irritability, which was reported at the time of PML suspicion. 
No other CSF tests were performed.  The patient was not receiving any MS therapy and the event was deemed as 
"not related" by the neurologist. 
Brain and brainstem MRI with and without contrast medium performed on 02 Jul 2014: "The current exam was 
compared to the previous one performed on 23 Apr 2014, and didn't show any substantial change, in particular: 
substantially unchanged in number and size the signal alteration foci which were observable in the periventricular 
and paraventricular white matter and in the semioval center, bilaterally, ascribable to demyelinating foci. The corpus
callosum involvement resulted unchanged as well. In the post contrastographic phase the peripheral enhancement 
in the deep left frontal-parietal lesion resulted less visible than before. No other foci, featured by abnormal 
enhancement in the subtentorial and supratentorial brain tissue were found. The medial axis resulted mantained. 
The ventricular morphology and volume was unchanged as well as the liquoral spaces, both cisternal and cortical. 
The current exam showed some signal alteration foci in the cervical segment of the spinal cord , from C2 to C4 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 142 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
segments: following the clinical assessment, a spianal cord MRI with contrast medium would be recommended. 
Substantially unchanged all the other findings."
Update 07 Aug 2014: Upon internal review it was determined that this case was ruled out for PML based on MRI 
consistent with MS progression, negative CSF for JCV DNA, and final diagnosis of MS reactivation.
Update 13 Oct 2014: The neurologist has reevaluated the last MRI report which suggests PML.  The neurologist 
would like to have the review of the radiologic picture prior to performing a new lumbar puncture.  The treating 
neurologist reported the report of the MRI performed on 01 Oct 2014. Brain and brainstem MRI with and without 
contrast medium (Dotarem 10 ml) showed the current exam, compared to the previous one performed on 02 Jul 
2014, shows a worsened picture, which was known for the occurrence of multiple T2 hyperintense foci, along with 
diffusion restriction due to a diffusibility increase in the periventricular, bilateral retro and sovra trigonal, left temporal
areas and  in the splenium of the corpus callosum. In particular the biggest lesion is on the left corona radiata 
extending toward the insula, it shows faded edges, a diffusion restriction appearing mildly ring like, its enhancement
is partially well defined outward and partially appears like an open ring after contrast medium administration. Faded 
enhancements are also visible where there are other new lesions, especially on the right pareventricular area, in the
splenium and in particular in the left retrotrigonal area. The ventricular complex resulted on axis and unchanged in 
terms of volume. The cistern at the base and the convexity sulci were visible, bilaterally. All these findings could be 
referrable to a disease progression, anyway the size and the aspect of the lesion found in the left corona radiata, 
extending towards the insula, mainly subcortical, doesn't exclude PML occurrence.  No further information was 
reported.
Update 28 Oct 2014: The treating neurologist reported that the next MRI was scheduled in 3 weeks in order to keep
the picture under monitoring. He was confident that this is a MS relapse.  The neurologist would like to wait for the 
next MRI in order to give a final diagnosis.  The neurologist agreed with the opinion that the last MRI report and 
images, and considers this case a MS relapse.  MRI results included the findings of 4 N/E T2 lesions, 3 of which 
have enhancement patterns consistent with MS which suggest that this is recurrent MS rather than PML in this 
patient 6 months after discontinuation of TYSABRI. Although PML is said to be multifocal, these are relatively 
isolated lesions occurring in typical locations for MS. The most worrisome lesion is in the left corona radiate, left 
insula and a follow-up exam in 3 to 4 weeks with contrast would be helpful to rule out change in size and shape or 
extension.
Update 24 Nov and 02 Dec 2014: The treating neurologist reported, through the medical science liaison, that the 
last MRI performed on 17 Nov 2014 showed significant lesions along with a general picture showing a mild 
worsening. The neurologist was still not suspecting PML diagnosis.  No additional information was reported.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 143 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information