Case number# PHHY2014ES156984, is an initial literature case report received on 26 Nov 2014. The authors 
discussed about immunosuppression based on everolimus in liver transplant recipients with severe early post-
transplantation neurotoxicity. This report refers to a 67-year-old male patient (patient 6). In 2009, liver 
transplantation was performed. The patient had hepatitis C virus (HCV) cirrhosis. Child-Pugh Score was C (12) and
United Network for Organ Sharing classification (UNOS) was home. The patient had previous renal insufficiency 
and did not have encephalopathy, arterial hypertension (AHT) and diabetes mellitus (DM). Donor age was 39, cold 
ischemia time (CIT) was 390 minutes and intraoperative RBC was 6 (units not reported). His pre-conversion 
immunosuppression included calcineurin inhibitor tacrolimus (TAC, unknown manufacturer), mophetil 
mycophenolate (MMF, unknown manufacturer) and steroids (ST, unknown manufacturer). On unknown date, he 
developed neurotoxicity included seizures and multifocal progressive leukoencephalopathy (MPL). After 21 days 
from transplantation, the treatment was converted with post-conversion immunosuppression included everolimus 
(Ever, unknown manufacturer) at a dose of 0.5mg every 12 hours and subsequent doses were adjusted to obtain 
trough levels of 3ng/mL, and also received MMF and ST for unknown duration. On the day of conversion, treatment
with tacrolimus was stopped. On an unspecified date, his neurotoxicity was resolved but he experienced 
everolimus-related side effects dyslipemia (DL) which was managed with hypolipemic drugs, cytomegalovirus 
(CMV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV). Also on an unknown date, the patient had mild acute rejection. Follow-up was 
done for one year and on an unspecified date, the patient was died. Autopsy result was not provided. Seriousness 
assessment of the events (neurotoxicity and its symptoms, hepatitis C, cytomegalovirus infection and liver 
transplant rejection) was upgraded based on NVS-IME list. The authors concluded that everolimus was a feasible 
and effective option for immunosuppression in liver transplant recipients suffering neurotoxicity triggered by 
calcineurin inhibitors. However, the risk of acute rejection indicated a need for caution. The authors also stated that 
regimen based on everolimus without calcineurin inhibitors was safe, at least for the time required for calcineurin 
inhibitor-induced neurologic complications to disappear. In patients with acute rejection, the reintroduction of 
tacrolimus was an acceptable practice because the risk of further neurologic complications was very low.