Based on the additional information received on 18-Sep-2015: company causality reassessed as not associated.
Additional information was received on 03-Dec-2014; the case was upgraded from non-serious to serious due to 
the event of JC virus and reporter causality for the event of groggy and arthritis aggravated was updated to "not 
associated".
Initial information regarding this solicited case from United States was received from the patient via Patient Support 
Program on 23-Jun-2014.
This case involves a 37-year-old male patient (Patient ID: (b) (6) ) who felt groggy and whose arthritis had 
gotten worse, 2nd flare up in a short period of time an unspecified time frame after starting teriflunomide (Aubagio).
Past drugs: interferon beta-1A (Avonex), glatiramer acetate (Copaxone), interferon beta-1A (Rebif), natalizumab 
(Tysabri), dimethyl fumarate (Tecfidera) and albumin human/glucose/interferon beta (Betaseron) for multiple 
sclerosis. Also, while on dimethyl fumarate (Tecfidera) he experienced stomach pains and gas.
No relevant concurrent conditions were reported.
On 19-Jun-2014 the patient commenced treatment with oral teriflunomide at a dose of 14 mg daily for multiple 
sclerosis (form, lot/batch number and expiration date: not provided). Patient reported that the first day of taking 
teriflunomide he felt groggy when he woke up (Onset date: Jun-2014). He now takes teriflunomide earlier and 
problem resolved. Patient also reported that his arthritis has gotten worse since starting teriflunomide (Onset date: 
Jun-2014). Patient was diagnosed with psoriatic arthritis one year ago, had occasional flare ups where he could not 
move, move recent was in his Right hip, painful motion of walking. This had affected his joints in his Left elbow, 
Right knee, hands and had psoriatic dry skin patches. Patient was tested positive for JC Virus. Because of all the 
medication for MS, his immune system was compromised and he was sometimes getting affected with MS 
symptoms and arthritis symptoms. Patient needed to take rest, had tried Methotrexate in the past for the arthritis, 
but could not take together with MS medication. Patient did not feel any of these symptoms were related to 
teriflunomide, he had not experienced any side effects of teriflunomide per patient. Patient was also taking Vitamin 
D as a supplement.
Teriflunomide was stopped 1 1/2 weeks ago because was he has 2nd flare up in a short period of time (onset and 
latency: unknown) and his MD decided to switch him back to Tysabri.
Action taken: No action taken
Corrective Treatment: Not reported.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 177 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Outcome: recovered for the event felt groggy and unknown 2nd flare up in a short period of time, arthritis has 
gotten worse and JC virus infection.
Causality:
1) JC virus infection and 2nd flare up in a short period of time
Reporter causality: not reported
Company causality: not associated
2) groggy and arthritis aggravated
Reporter causality: not associated
Company causality: associated
Additional information was received on 03-Dec-2014:
-new event of JC virus infection was added
-psoriatic arthritis was added as medical history
-Vitamin D was added as concomitant drugs
-interferon beta-1A (Avonex), glatiramer acetate (Copaxone), interferon beta-1A (Rebif), natalizumab (Tysabri), 
dimethyl fumarate (Tecfidera) and albumin human/glucose/interferon beta (Betaseron) for multiple sclerosis and 
Methotrexate for arthritis was added as past drugs.
-case was upgrade to serious
-reporter causality for the event of groggy and arthritis aggravated was updated to "not associated". 
-narrative was updated as per the information received.
Additional information was received on 18-Sep-2015.
Event coded: multiple sclerosis flare.
Company causality reassessed as not associated.