Medically Significant
A neurologist spontaneously reported that an adult female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple 
Sclerosis from unknown date to unknown date and since an unknown date experienced suspicion of PML (onset 
unknown) and vision impairment (onset unknown).  At the time of this report, the patient received a total of 48 
[TYSABRI] infusions. TYSABRI therapy was interrupted (date and reason not provided) and started on Gilenya 
(fingolimod) therapy (date not provided).  Due to MS relapses on Gilenya, TYSABRI therapy was restarted.  A MRI 
performed on an unspecified date showed PML-typical changes, which raised PML suspicion.  CSF JCV DNA 
testing was planned (results pending).  No treatment was reported.  The patient was assigned to the "partner" 
hospital and therefore, no exact information is available at this time.  The outcome for the events suspicion of PML 
and vision impairment is unknown. The causality for the events of suspicion of PML and vision impairment is 
unknown.  TYSABRI therapy continues.
Update 26 Nov 2014:  Upon follow-up with the neurologist, MRI images from (b) (6)  were provided (MRI 
report not provided).
Update 26 Nov 2014: Additional information was provided by the neurologist. Due to clinical symptoms and MRI 
results, PML suspicion remains in this patient. Following impressive neurological deficit symptomatology, a 
plasmapheresis cycle was started on (b) (6)
Update 26 Nov 2014: A medical doctor spontaneously reported that CSF JCV DNA testing performed at a local lab 
(Department of Virology) was positive. An aliquot of the sample will be sent to (b) (6)  to be retested.
Update 27 Nov 2014: The neurologist confirmed that he is not interested in sending out biological samples 
(presumed in reference to sending out CSF sample to be retested at (b) (6) ). According to the neurologist, PML is 
now confirmed based on results of the CSF JCV DNA testing (result previously reported).
Update 27 Nov 2014:  Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS PML Data Collection 
Form: Suspect.  The 38 year old female patient on TYSABRI from Sep 2009 to an unknown date (total of 43 
infusions; discrepant information, to be clarified) with last infusion on 28 Oct 2014 was being evaluated for PML 
suspicion (onset (b) (6) ). TYSABRI therapy was interrupted for greater than 3 months (presumed some time) 
during Sep 2009 to Feb 2013 due to PML risk.  The patient is currently in the intensive care unit in the hospital.  The
patient was diagnosed with MS in Apr 2008.  MS disease symptoms prior to suspected PML included paraparesis 
and walking distance less than 500m (motor/multifocal), ataxia (cerebellar), and hypoesthesia (sensory) (onsets 
unknown).  The patient has never received prior immunosuppressant therapy; however, immunomodulatory therapy
included Copaxone (glatiramer) from May 2008 to Jul 2008, Rebif (interferon beta-1a) from Aug 2008 to Aug 2008, 
IVIG from Mar 2012 to Sep 2012, and Gilenya from Oct 2012 to Dec 2012.  Signs and symptoms which led to the 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 154 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
evaluation for possible PML included psychosyndrome (cognitive/behavioral) (onset (b) (6) ), visual 
disturbances/halluzinations (visual) (onset (b) (6) ), and apraxia, headache (other) (onset (b) (6) ).  MRI 
was performed on (b) (6)  at the time of PML diagnosis (images previously provided but no report of findings).
 A lumbar puncture was performed on 24 Nov 2014 and CSF sample was tested on (b) (6)   CSF JCV DNA 
result was positive at a local lab ((b) (6) ).  The patient tested positive for serum anti-JCV antibodies in 
Mar 2012. CSF analysis performed on (b) (6)  was abnormal (5 cells/?l, NOS).  No brain biopsy had been 
performed.  Treatment included plasma exchange (PLEX), started on (b) (6)   At the time of this report, the 
neurologist noted that it is too early to comment on outcome of PML suspicion.
Update 03 Dec 2014:  Additional information was received from a different neurologist.  The patient was referred to 
him by the "partner hospital". The patient was treated for MS by the "partner hospital" until (b) (6)  (specific date 
not provided).
Update 11 Dec 2014: Upon internal review, Biogen Idec considers this case to be a confirmed case of PML based 
on positive CSF, consistent radiologic findings, and clinical symptoms.
Update 25 Feb 2015:  Additional information was received from the second reporting neurologist.  Treatment with 
maraviroc was initiated 2 weeks following PML diagnosis. According to the reporter, significant clinical improvement
had been seen since maraviroc treatment initiated. However, after temporal discontinuation of maraviroc therapy, 
clinical and radiological worsening was observed (new lesions - presumed MRI result, date unknown).  Therefore, 
maraviroc treatment was re-started and again the patient showed clinical and radiological improvement. At the time 
of this report, condition of the patient was noted as follows: left side paralyzed (flaccid paralysis), wheelchair-bound,
the patient can stand independently.  The reason for use of maraviroc therapy was based on results showing that 
maraviroc can be potentially effective in IRIS patients.  No further information was provided regarding IRIS (onset 
unknown) in this patient.
Update 04 May 2015:  The following report was received from literature.  Harrer A, Pilz G, Oppermann K, Afazel S, 
Haschke-Becher E, Huemer M, et al.  Early IRIS despite residual T cell-bound - natalizumab in PML.  Insight 
Medmeme.  12th Annual Meeting of the Austrian Society of Neurology. 24 Mar 2015.  A case report to investigate 
natalizumab desaturation of peripheral blood T cells and the immune phenotype of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 
cells by flow cytometry in a 38-year-old, anti-JCV-antibody seropositive MS patient (this patient) to gain insight in 
the process of PLEX, immune reconstitution and onset of IRIS was performed.  This patient, who had received a 
total of 55 natalizumab infusions, reported increased ataxia and hemianopsia.  Brain MRI (date unknown) revealed 
an atypical multilobar T2 hyperintense lesion without gadolinium enhancing in the right parietal and temporal lobes. 
CSF analysis showed slight pleocytosis (5 cells/?l) of predominantly CD3 T cells (91 %), a decreased CD4/CD8 T 
cell ratio (0.9), and JCV DNA positive PCR results (750 copies/?l).  Natalizumab-associated PML was diagnosed 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 155 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
and the patient was treated with PLEX to accelerate immune reconstitution. After 8 cycles of PLEX (day 15) the 
natalizumab saturation of the peripheral blood T cells only decreased from 77 % to 64 %.  After a 9th cycle of PLEX
(day 17), hemiparesis on the left side and increased hemianopsia were suspect of incipient IRIS.  Brain MRI (date 
unknown) showed an enlargement of the right temporal lobe lesion without gadolinium enhancement.  Natalizumab 
saturation levels of peripheral blood T cells were still about 40 %. The CSF, however, showed pleocytosis (88 
cells/?l) and a normalized CD4/CD8 T cell ratio (3.1). The cell-bound natalizumab was not detected on CSF T cells 
and there was a clear shift from predominantly effector memory T cells at the first lumbar puncture towards a 
central memory T cell phenotype. Based on CSF pleocytosis and clinical symptoms, incipient IRIS was diagnosed 
and treatment with high dose methylprednisolone (HD-MP) was introduced. Clinical symptoms remained 
unchanged under HD-MP.  It was concluded that IRIS apparently can occur when the natalizumab desaturation of 
the peripheral blood T cells is not yet fully established. This raised questions concerning the optimal duration of 
PLEX treatment, the relevance of the residual cell-bound natalizumab as protection against acute onset IRIS, and 
the significance of CSF pleocytosis compared to MRI in the diagnosis of IRIS.