AER 1508069 is a literature-spontaneous case, received on 15/Dec/2014 from an other healthcare professional 
and concerns a 54 year old female patient who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) after 
being treated with rituximab plus cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, oncovin and prednisolone (R-CHOP) 
therapy.
The patient was diagnosed in May 2012 with a follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma grade 1, stage 3A, FLIPI (Follicular
Lymphoma International Prognostic Index) score 2. She was treated with the rituximab, cyclophosphamide, 
hydroxydaunorubicin, oncovicin and prednisolone  (R-CHOP ) regimen from July to November 2012; she tolerated 
the treatment well and achieved a complete response. Thereafter, she was treated with rituximab alone from March
to December 2013. The patient had a whole body PET-CT scan in September 2013 that did not reveal any signs of 
recurrent or systemic disease. In December 2013, she noticed gradually progressive neurological symptoms, such 
as headache, memory loss (short and long-term), slurred speech, gait disturbance, confusion and disorientation. 
Her relatives reported that she appeared confused and took longer than usual to respond to their questions or 
suggestions.  In January 2014, she had a brain MRI that resulted negative finding. Her neurological symptoms 
continued to worsen and she eventually developed a myoclonic seizure. In (b) (6)  she was admitted due to
her history of progressive cognitive impairment. On admission, she was not awake but responded to strong verbal 
stimuli. Thereafter, she had bowel and bladder incontinence, psychomotor slowing, myoclonic seizure, diffuse 
muscle weakness. She could not walk unassisted, had a positive Romberg test but a negative Babinski response. 
Gait testing revealed ataxia. She was found to be afebrile and the vital signs were normal. Breath sounds were 
clear and oxygen saturation was normal. Her medications included acetylsalicylic acid, bisoprolol, telmisartan and 
atorvastatin. Laboratory investigations were significant for a low lymphocyte count of 13% (normal range 20-43%) 
and a low serum immunoglobulin (Ig) concentration of 620 mg/dL (normal 800-1350 mg/dL). Laboratory tests also 
showed a normal haemoglobin level, white blood cell and neutrophil counts. Electrolyte levels, renal function panel 
results, cardiac and liver enzyme levels were in range. Electroencephalography (EEG) was characterized by a slow 
background activity with triphasic waves (Tws) and slow waves predominantly in the frontal regions. Her brain 
computerised tomogram (CT scan) showed multiple hypodense lesions in the white matter of the cerebral and 
cerebellar hemispheres. She had also a brain nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that compared with the 
previous MRI showed widespread lesions of the subcortical and deep white matter consistent with a demyelinating 
process. The cerebral hemispheres and cerebellum were involved in a symmetric way. The cortex, basal ganglia 
and the thalami were spared. T2-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) MR images showed 
multiple scattered hyperintense focal lesions in the subcortical, deep and periventricular white matter of the fronto-
parieto-occipital region bilaterally and in the cerebellum. The lesions were round or ovoid, without significant mass 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 186 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
effect and did not conform to cerebrovascular territories. Restricted diffusion was not noted. On T1-weighted 
sequences, the lesions showed a decreased signal. No enhancement was observed following administration of 
gadolinium. Investigation with MR spectroscopy showed a mild reduction of the N-acetyl aspartate (NAA) peak, with
decreased NAA/Cr ratio, and a slightly elevated choline (CHO) peak, with increased Cho/Cr ratio. Whole body 
Positron emission tomogram (PET)-CT scan showed no areas of hypermetabolic activity to suggest relapsed 
lymphoma. Her serology was negative for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B and hepatitis C. The 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) had an increased protein level of 57.2 mg/ dl (normal 15-45 mg/dl), an increased albumin 
level of 43.2 mg/dl (normal 0-35 mg/dl) and a high IgG level of 4.73 mg/dl (normal 0-4 mg/ dl). There was a high 
CSF/albumin ratio of 13 (normal <9). The total cell count in the CSF was normal, with normal levels of glucose and 
a negative Gram stain. Herpes simplex virus DNA was not detected in her CSF by the polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR). PCR of the CSF and serum showed JC virus DNA and so PML was diagnosed. During her hospital 
admission, the patient received medical treatment, including levetiracetam and mirtazapine, but reported a 
progressive worsening of the clinical and radiological findings.
The authors stated that, PML should be considered in patients with progressive neurological disorders involving the
entire nervous system and mainly the white matter, especially in the presence of previous immunomodulatory 
treatment or immunosuppression (R-CHOP therapy).
Felli V, Di Sibio A,  Anselmi M, Gennarelli A, Sucapane P, Splendiani A, Catalucci A, Marini C and Gallucci M. 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy Following Treatment with Rituximab in an HIV-Negative Patient with 
Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. A Case Report and Literature Review. The neuroradiology journal 2014; 27(6): 657-664.
Full article was received on 16/Dec/2014 and following information was added to the case: Therapy start date and 
end date of suspect drug updated along with detail clinical course of adverse event with investigation and treatment
added.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML.