This case concerns a 33 year old female on TYSABRI for x 63 infusions from an unknown date to 28 JUL 2014. 
Her MS was diagnosed in 2007 and she tested anti-JCV antibody positive (date unknown). The patient has no prior 
IS history and previous MS therapies included Copaxone from 2008 to May 2010 and IVIG (received post 
pregnancy and during breastfeeding). On (b) (6)  the patient was admitted emergently due to MRI results 
from (b) (6)  which showed edema, diffusion disturbance, and cortical contrast agent uptake in the left 
hemisphere. An external expert assessed the MRI scans as typical for PML. Clinically the patient complained of 
slowly increasing stiffness and weakness of the whole right half of her body and disorder of the fine motor skills of 
her right hand. CSF for JCV DNA PCR collected in (b) (6)  returned positive from (b) (6)  at 5 copies/mL. 
Repeat MR from (b) (6)  revealed new enhancing subcortical left parietal lesion on FLAIR and brain MRI from
(b) (6)  showed increased contrast enhancement in the subcortical post central region. The patient was 
treated with 5 cycles of PLEX, mefloquine, and mirtazapine for PML. In (b) (6)  the patient clinically 
deteriorated with mild aphasia, discrete dysarthria, central facial paralysis, right-sided hyperreflexia, short term 
memory disorder, lack of motivation and 2 episodes of tonic clonic seizures. A second lumbar puncture was 
performed in (b) (6)  and CSF returned positive at 1050 copies/mL from (b) (6)  The increased viral load was
explained by the neurologist as due to cell degradation in the course of IRIS. Brain MRI from (b) (6)  revealed 
clear findings of a garland-shaped contrast enhancement in the border area were most probably compatible with a 
reconstitution syndrome (IRIS) in the course of PML. The patient treated with cortisone pulse therapy of 2g/day for 
5 days for IRIS and lorazepam for the seizures. Post IRIS MRI imaging from (b) (6)  showed a complete 
regression of the contrast medium enhancing lesions thus implicating a successful therapy of the IRIS. A third LP 
was performed in Nov 2014 and JCV DNA PCR in CSF ((b) (6) ) was 252 copies/ml. Biogen Idec considers this
case confirmed for PML on 11 Dec 2014 based on positive CSF for JCV, radiologic evidence and clinical 
symptoms.
Update 13 Apr 2015: A report was received from literature: Marquetand, J.; Bischof, F.; Nagele, T.. Contrast-
enhancing lesions within the spinal chord help to identify IRIS in patients with natalizumab-PML. Presented at the 
59th Annual Meeting of German Society for Clinical Neurophysiology and Functional Imaging (DGKN) of the 
Federation of European Neuroscience Societies(FENS); Tubingen; Germany. 18 Mar 2015. The authors reported 
that most, if not all patients with natalizumab-associated PML who are treated by PLEX develop an immune 
reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS), which often leads to severe tissue destruction within the brain. While 
steroids can efficiently treat IRIS, they worsen PML and a reliable and prompt diagnosis of IRIS in natalizumab-PML
patients is thus critical. We report on a patient [the patient in this case] with supratentorial manifestations of 
natalizumab-PML who developed difficulties urination three weeks after PLEX and corresponding new gadolinium-
enhancing lesions within the spinal chord. Cerebral MRI confirmed the diagnosis of IRIS. Therefore, detection of 
contrast-enhancing lesions within the spinal chord may help to identify IRIS in patients with natalizumab-PML.
Update 21 Apr 2015: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a Standardized MS PML Data 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 207 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Collection Tool. The patient had a positive serum anti-JCV antibody test result prior to PML diagnosis (test date not 
reported). On an unspecified date during TYSABRI therapy, the patient s leukocyte count was 10.000 and relative 
lymphocyte count was 18 percent (reference range not provided). A lumbar puncture was performed in Nov 2014 
and was positive for JCV-PCR at 252 copies per mL (previously reported). Another lumbar puncture was performed
in Dec 2014 and was positive for CSF JCV DNA at 4 copies per mL. The patient s estimated Karnofsky and EDSS 
scores in Dec 2014 (3 months after PML diagnosis) were 50 (requires considerable assistance and frequent 
medical care) and 7.5, respectively. In Dec 2014, the patient was residing in a rehabilitation facility. A cranial MRI 
and a spinal MRI were performed on 18 Dec 2014 with results reported as follows: Compared to the previous MRI, 
today s examinations showed to a large extend consistency of the signal enhancements in the left parietal and 
frontal white matter, less also on the right-hand side. Only very discrete increase (comment affiliate: of the signal 
enhancements) was seen in the deep white matter parietally on the right-hand side. Slight increase in the barrier 
disturbance at the left subcortical region with simultaneous decrease in the barrier disturbance on the right-hand 
side were displayed as well as currently signs of a distinct myelination with increased choline and lactate signals. 
The patient has been diagnosed with IRIS, which was determined by clinical symptoms and MRI findings 
(previously reported). The patient was treated with corticosteroids post-IRIS onset (previously reported). Currently, 
the patient is residing at home. As of Dec 2014, the patient has not recovered from PML and has recovered from 
IRIS. Causality for the events of PML and IRIS was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 29 Apr 2015: Additional information was received from the treating neurologist. On 17 Apr 2015, MRI was 
performed and findings were compared with a previous MRI from Sep 2014. The current MRI showed that the 
extensive gliosis / edema zone in the left fronto-parieto-occipital region was distinctly progressive; the extensive 
gliosis could now also be demarcated in the right parietal and occipital parts of hemisphere. Particularly, a distinct 
edema was seen in the left hemisphere, partly with garland-shaped contrast medium enhancement. However, there
was no diffusion disturbance seen. Additionally, single small patchy contrast medium enhancing lesions were found
in the left parietal temporal region as well as in the right temporal region and frontally at both sides which were new 
compared to the previous MRI. Increased gliosis / edema without contrast medium enhancement were displayed 
along the left cortico-spinal tract, possibly in the scope of incipient Wallerian degeneration. No shift of the central 
line was seen. The CSF ventricles were of unchanged width. Small lesions were seen in the left ventral pons; these
lesions were new compared with the previous MRI. The neurologist's evaluation was distinct progress of the PML 
with extensive gliosis / oedema in the left fronto-parieto-occipital region, partly with garland-shaped contrast 
medium enhancement, and presently also PML affection in the right hemisphere were displayed. Additionally, 
several florid inflammatory lesions with BBB disturbance could be demarcated which had newly occurred. Incipient 
Wallerian degeneration at the left side was displayed.
Update 04 May 2015: Information was received via a poster presented at the 2015 German Society for Clinical 
Neurophysiology and Functional Imaging (DGKN), Tubingen, Germany. Justus Marquetand, Thomas Nagele, Felix 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 208 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Bischof. Contrast-enhancing lesions within the spinal chord suggests immune reconstitution inflammatory 
syndrome (IRIS) in a patient with natalizumab associated progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(natalizumab-PML). The authors reported that a 33 year old female patient with relapsing-remitting MS was 
admitted to their hospital with a 2 weeks history of progressive right sided hemiparesis. Before presenting to the 
hospital, she had received 22 infusions of natalizumab within the preceding 27 months. Anti-JCV antibodies in 
serum were positive. Initial examination revealed a right sided spastic brachiofacial hemiparesis with increased 
reflexes, positive Babinski sign and myoclonus. She did not have aphasia or dysarthria, the other cranial nerves 
and sensitivity were intact as was bladder and bowel function. EDSS was initially 4.5. On an unspecified date, 
cerebral MRI showed typical older demyelinasation on the FLAIR image together with a confluent patchy signal 
hyper intensity in the parietal white matter on the left side (image provided); and on an unspecified date, cerebral 
MRI showed a typical more pronounced subcortical contrast-enhancement along the borders of the PML lesions. In
addition, an intramedullary contrast enhancement was found in the mid thoracal spinal cord (Vertebra 8-9) 
accompanied by a signal hyper intensity on the T2w axial image. Altogether these findings were indicative for IRIS 
with an atypical not yet described spinal manifestation (image provided). Initial clinical examination and MRI were 
highly indicative for a natalizumab-PML, which after an IRIS occurred. The patient showed new Gd+ IRIS lesions 
including the non-PML affected tissue. The authors concluded that new spinal cord symptoms and Gd+ lesions 
within the spinal cord can indicate the onset of IRIS in natalizumab-PML patients and thus add to the diagnosis. 
This may be particularly advantageous in patients in whom IRIS is difficult to differentiate from PML, as is the case 
in patients who display contrast-enhancing PML lesions or patients who develop IRIS without contrast-enhancing 
cerebral lesions. While IRIS is commonly considered to occur predominantly at sites of PML lesions, this case 
demonstrates that Gd+ IRIS lesions can occur in areas not affected by PML on conventional MRI including the 
spinal cord.
Update 13 Oct 2015: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a Standardized MS PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive and residing at home. Previous MS therapy included Copaxone from Apr 2008 
to unknown date, IVIG from May 2010 to unknown date, and TYSABRI from Aug 2012 to unknown date.  Current 
therapy for Multiple Sclerosis due to radiological evidence of return of MS was started at another hospital and 
neurologist presumes is fingolimod. The patient's Karnofsky and EDSS scores were assessed in Apr 2015 to be 50 
(requires considerable assistance and frequent medical care) and 7.0.  The most recent brain MRI was performed 
on 17 Apr 2015 and was previously reported. As of this report, the events of PML and IRIS are still active and the 
outcome is unknown. Causality for the events of PML and IRIS was assessed as related to TYSABRI.