Medically Significant
A study investigator reported that a 33 year old male patient receiving TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) from 14 Feb 
2012 and enrolled in the (b) (6)  experienced progressive deterioration of 
walking ability. The indication for TYSABRI was relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis diagnosed on an unknown 
date. The most recent TYSABRI infusion was administered on 28 Aug 2014. The patient had received an unknown 
number of TYSABRI infusions to date. Medical history included multiple sclerosis, chronic fatigue syndrome, 
erectile dysfunction, dysthymia, and anxiety disorders, all of which were ongoing. Concomitant medications 
included Lyrica (pregabalin). Previous medications were not provided.
It was reported that, for three weeks prior to hospitalization, the patient experienced progressive deterioration of 
walking ability. The patient was hospitalized on (b) (6)  for exclusion of PML. On (b) (6)  VEP 
(presumed Visual Evoked Potential), SEP (presumed Sensory Evoked Potentials), and MEP (presumed Motor 
Evoked Potentials) were normal. On (b) (6)  a lumbar puncture was performed and the patient tested 
negative for CSF JCV DNA. Treatment for the event was not provided. The patient was discharged from the 
hospital on (b) (6)
The investigator considered the event of exclusion PML as unrelated to TYSABRI. No action was taken with 
TYSABRI. At the time of this report, the event was recovered/resolved on (b) (6)
Update 09 Dec 2014: Additional information from the investigator site reported that PML was excluded and the final 
diagnosis was RRMS.
Update 15 Dec 2014: Additional information/clarification was received from the site. PML was excluded and the 
final diagnoses were worsening ability to walk and suspected first symptoms of SPMS.
Update 07 Jan 2015: Additional information received from the investigator reported that the patient was diagnosed 
with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis in 2006 (specific date unknown) and had received 31 infusions of 
TYSABRI prior to the events. The investigator confirmed that both the events of progressive deterioration of walking
ability and suspected first symptoms of SPMS were moderate in intensity. The investigator clarified that the lumbar 
puncture was performed on (b) (6)  No treatments were given for the events. A hospital discharge summary 
for the patient was not available. The investigator clarified that only the exclusion of PML was "recovered." Both 
other events were still "suspicious" (presumed to mean ongoing). Causality for the events of progressive 
deterioration of walking ability and suspected first symptoms of SPMS were confirmed as unrelated to study drug.
Update 27 May 2015: Two hospital neurologists spontaneously reported via a MSL that a 34-year-old male patient 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 195 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
who had been treated with TYSABRI infusions from Jan 2012 (discrepant from previous information indicating 14 
Feb 2012) to Jan 2015 for MS experienced increase in neurological deficits (presume previously reported events of 
"progressive deterioration of walking ability" and "suspected first symptoms of SPMS") and had previously had 
suspicion of PML or IRIS raised in Jan 2015. The patient was treated with TYSABRI until Jan 2015. TYSABRI was 
discontinued because the patient's condition increasingly worsened. Subsequently, the patient developed an IRIS 
or showed clinical symptoms of PML, respectively, therefore repeatedly CSF JCV PCR had been analysed, each 
analysis was negative until now. CSF JCV PCR analysed in the (b) (6)  did not show any
copies. The neurologist intended to send a[nother] CSF sample to (b) (6) . The neurologist added that the clinical 
symptoms corresponded to a MS relapse however the MRI (date unspecified) seemed very much like PML. 
Medical history, concomitant medication and concomitant diseases were unknown. SAE therapy and relevant 
diagnostic tests and laboratory values were unknown. The neurologist assessed the causality as possible. No 
further information is available at the moment.
Update 10 Jun 2015: Follow-up information was received from the investigator via a suspect PML data collection 
form, medical records, and discharge letter. MS was diagnosed in 2006. MS disease symptoms prior to suspect 
PML included concentration disorders (onset 2010), mild tetraparesis with spasticity, focal seizure, and 
paresthesias in the legs (onset 2010). The patient had not received prior immunosuppressant therapy. Prior 
immunomodulatory therapy included Betaseron (interferon beta-1b; 250 mg, SC, TIW) from 2008 to 2010 and 
Copaxone (glatiramer acetate; 20 mg, SC, QD) from 2011 to 2012. While on Copaxone, there were 5 relapses and 
a significant increase in lesions in the cerebral magnetic resonance imaging, so that in Jan 2012 an escalation 
treatment with TYSABRI had been initiated. Since then, no new episodes occurred. The suspect product was 
confirmed as TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) which was started on 13 Feb 2012 (previously reported as Jan 2012) and
stopped on 26 Jan 2015. There were no interruptions of the suspect product for greater than 3 months. While on 
TYSABRI, prior to PML suspicion, on 23 May 2013, leukocyte count was 9.2/nl (reference range 3.6-10), 
lymphocyte count was 31.6% (reference range 17-47), and absolute lymphocyte count was 2.91/nl (reference range
1-2.9). On 31 Jul 2014, serum anti-JCV antibody status was positive, index unknown ((b) (6) ). MRI prior to 
suspected PML was performed on 02 Sep 2014 which showed no new myelin foci, no barrier disruption, no 
progression, no active processes, and no indications for PML. PML was suspected after a routine MRI.  The patient
was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  for suspicion of PML. The last infusion of TYSABRI (prior to 
hospitalization) was administered on 26 Aug 2014. Diagnoses included RRMS (with EDSS 4.0), exclusion of PML, 
chronic fatigue syndrome, erectile dysfunction, and dysthymia. The patient experienced gait and balance 
disturbance; the free walking distance is significantly reduced to approximately 500 m without a break. The patient 
had had continuous deterioration of ambulation capacity for about 1.5 months. Spasticity and the occasional 
buckling the both legs had increased. A limitation of concentration and retentiveness had not been noticed. Blurred 
vision or other focal neurological deficits had not occurred. With a known depressive mood, the patient felt 
increasingly that he was missing energy/drive for action. In the past he had been taking temporary fluoxetine. While
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 196 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
hospitalized, a new MRI of the head and the spinal axis were performed (results not provided). CSF analysis was 
clear, no pleocytosis, no barrier disruption, no intrathecal IgG, IgA or IgM synthesis quantifiable, 2 isolated 
IgGBands, detectable in CSF, oligoclonal; lactate and glucose normal; Borrelia serology negative; JC virus DNA 
(PCR) negative. In summary, there were no indications for PML that could be underlying to the increase in 
subjective complaints. A suspension of natalizumab treatment was considered not justified. It was noted that it was 
uncertain, whether this deterioration report can be related to the first symptoms of a transition into a secondarily 
progressive course and this would become clear only in the coming months. MRI at the time of suspected PML was
performed on 05 Feb 2015 and showed no new myelin foci; findings right occipital with barrier disruption highly 
suspected of PML (retrospective slow progredient since 2014). On 13 Apr 2015, the patient underwent MRI of the 
brain which showed no new myelin foci, no progress, unchanged the juxtacortial PML-suspected foci right occipital 
with barrier disruption. On (b) (6)  the patient underwent lumbar puncture; CSF JCV DNA result was negative 
(laboratory (b) (6) ). CSF analysis was performed in (b) (6)  results not provided. Brain biopsy was 
not performed. The patient has not received treatment with plasma exchange (PLEX) or immunoadsorption. 
Additionally the patient experienced epileptic seizure on (b) (6)  The patient's current location was hospital.
The investigator considered that PML was still under investigation.
Update 25 Nov 2015: Additional information was provided by a neurologist that the patient was presented at the 
hospital in(b) (6)  with hemianopia to the left, headache, dizziness and nausea. On (b) (6)  (discrepant 
date), CSF samples were collected and sent to (b) (6)  and (b) (6)  for JCV PCR testing. Both tests 
returned negative. Due to clinical and MRI findings consistent with PML, the patient underwent a brain biopsy on (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  which confirmed the diagnosis of PML. Despite the fact that JCV PCR was negative, 
immunohistochemical findings were consistent with PML and IRIS. The brain biopsy tissue was also sent to the 
(b) (6)  hospital for second opinion and PML was confirmed. The patient was 
admitted to hospital and received cortisone pulse therapy for IRIS. Additional treatment included maraviroc 300 mg 
BID which was ongoing at the time of this report. The symptoms of hemianopia, headache, dizziness and nausea 
completely resolved following treatment. The patient was doing well at the time of the reporting and EDSS was 
assessed at 4.0.