Case number CHPA2014US016466, is an initial spontaneous report from a lawyer received on 11 Dec 2014. This 
report refers to a 3 year old female patient. Family history included hypertension (Father has hypertension), asthma 
(Cousins have Asthma) and mitral valve prolapse (Father's sister, who died suddenly, and mother's two sisters and 
a brother). Historical conditions included anticardiolipin antibodies positive, head trauma and head concussion. It 
was also reported that the patient has history of right hemispheric stroke secondary to occlusion of the proximal 
segment of the right middle cerebral artery. Current conditions included peanut allergy, runny nose, immunization 
(Hepatitis B, DTP, HIB, Polio, Hepatitis A, MMR, Chicken Pox Vaccine, Flu, Td/Tdap (Adult), Meningococcal, 
Meningococcal Group B, HPV, PPID placed), congenital scoliosis and fibromuscular dysplasia. Concomitant 
medication was not reported. The patient received Triaminic Cold and Allergy (chlorpheniramine maleate, 
phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride) syrup for the treatment of nasopharyngitis on 20 Mar 2000 at an unknown 
dose (oral). It was not reported if the health care professional recommended the product. It was reported that the 
patient developed an ischemic stroke as a direct and proximate result of her ingestion of the cold medication 
Triaminic, and that prior to her stroke, the patient was healthy, active and normally developing 3 year old. 
Additionally, it was reported that her "ischemic stroke resulted in a serious neurological injury and lifelong physical 
disability / brain growth reduced" (nervous system disorder) and "a short working memory" (memory impairment). It 
was also reported that "the ischemic stroke caused the patient to suffer from orthopedic limitations that cause her 
to limp" (gait disturbance) and "suffer from constant muscle tightness in her left side (muscle tightness). It was also 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 50 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
reported the patient "could not use her left hand/ Hemiplegia" (Hemiplegia), migraine, asthma, "a regular school day
tires the patient to the point of mental and physical exhaustion due to her neurological and physical injuries / chronic
fatigue" (fatigue), Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (Vertigo positional), acute serous otitis media (otitis media 
acute), exercise induced bronchospasm (Exercise induced bronchospasm), headache, syncope, chest pain, viral 
infection, pharyngitis, "Ganglion of tendon sheath" (synovial cyst), "otalgia" (ear pain), "Left Hemihypertrophy" 
(Hemihypertrophy), "Mild right leg length discrepancy" (Limb asymmetry), "Mild learning difficulties" (Learning 
disorder). On an unknown date in 2011 patient developed, sensitivity to light (photosensitivity reaction), inability to 
concentrate (dsturbance in attention). The patient also reported that her vertigo lasts for few seconds to hours. The 
patient also reported for allergic rhinitis (rhinitis allergic) The patient was treated with Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) for
treatment of chest pain, pharyngitis, viral infection and ear pain. The patient was treated with Qvar (beclometasone 
dipropionate) for treatment of Asthma and chest pain. The patient was treated with Xopenex (levosalbutamol 
hydrochloride) for treatment of cough, wheezing, viral infection and chest pain. The patient was treated with 
Meclizine (meclozine) for treatment of vertigo. The patient was treated with Augmentin/Unk/ (amoxicillin, 
clavulanate potassium) for treatment of otitis media acute. The patient underwent neuromuscular rehabilitation, 
therapeutic exercises, vestibular rehabilitation and Epley Manuever for positional vertigo. Treatment for her 
neurological and orthopedic limitations included unspecified medical treatment and rehabilitation for her entire life 
since stroke. It was reported that right middle cerebral artery stroke was due to fibromuscular dysplasia and 
resultant left hemiparesis and spasticity. Action taken with the suspect product was unknown at the time of this 
report. The outcome of the events hemiplegia, nervous system disorder, vertigo positional, hemihypertrophy, otitis 
media acute and synovial cyst was condition improving. The outcome of the events memory impairment, gait 
disturbance, fatigue and muscle tightness was reported as condition unchanged. The outcome of the events 
asthma, bronchospasm, headache, migraine, disturbance in attention and photosensitivity reaction, chest pain, 
syncope, viral infection, pharyngitis, otalgia, limb asymmetry, allergic rhinitis and  learning disorder was not 
reported. These events were not assessed by the attorney/lawyer. Seriousness assessment of the events 
ischaemic stroke (disability), gait disturbance (disability), muscle tightness (disability), hemiplegia (disability), and 
nervous system disorder (disability), vertigo positional (medically significant), migraine (medically significant), 
Asthma (medically significant), otitis media acute (medically significant), syncope (medically significant), hemi 
hypertrophy (medically significant) and ear pain (medically significant) was upgraded as serious based on the 
Novartis Important Medical Event List. The lawyer assessed events nervous system disorder, memory impairment, 
gait disturbance, muscle tightness, fatigue as suspected to be related to treatment with Triaminic Cold and Allergy. 
The causality of the other events were not reported. 
Significant follow up information was received from consumer on 13 Nov 2015. Events were added (migraine, 
asthma, vertigo positional, Disturbance in attention, Photosensitivity reaction, Exercise induced bronchospasm, 
Headache). Family history, current conditions and medications were updated.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 51 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Significant follow up information received on 23 Nov 2015 and 25 Nov 2015. Events were added (syncope, chest 
pain, viral infection, pharyngitis, synovial cyst, ear pain). Family history, Historical conditions, current conditions and 
treatment medications were updated.
Significant follow up information received on 03 Dec 2015: Events were added (hemi hypertrophy(medically 
significant), limb asymmetry and learning disorder).
Significant Follow up information received on 04 Dec 2015: Outcome of the events (Hemiplegia, Nervous system 
disorder, vertigo positional, Hemihypertrophy, Otitis media acute and synovial cyst) updated to condition improving.
Significant Follow Up information received on 04 Jan 2016: Event was added (Allergic rhinitis).