Case number# PHEH2014US024282, is an initial report received from a physician and nurse via patient oriented 
program Gilenya Go Program (POP00002581) on 04 Dec 2014, with follow up report received from a nurse via 
patient oriented program Gilenya Go Program (POP00002581) on 17 Feb 2015, with a combined follow up received
from a physician and nurse on 04 Dec 2014 and on 15 Jun 2015. This report refers to a 48-year-old male patient.
The patient's historical conditions included vision changes and teeth problems. Past surgical history included back 
surgery, dental oral surgery (dead nerves to teeth right side). Concomitant medications included amitriptyline, Lyrica
(pregabalin), Betaseron (albumin human, glucose, interferon beta) and Oxycodone and Acetaminophen 
(oxycodone hydrochloride, paracetamol). The patient received Gilenya (fingolimod) capsule for the treatment of 
multiple sclerosis (MS) from 27 Sep 2012, at a dose of 0.5 mg, QD (oral). 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 201 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The patient had long standing history of MS whose condition was continuously declined after stopping Gilenya due 
to no insurance coverage in Feb 2014. 
Medical notes on 19 Aug 2014 stated that the patient had multiple sclerosis for 11 years and was diagnosed with 
relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis one year ago. It was progressively caused him deterioration in ability to 
perform activities of daily living (ADL) independently. About two years ago, the patient lost his ambulatory function 
(gait disturbance) and became wheel chair bounded. In the last month or so it had accelerated its progression 
(multiple sclerosis). His main complaint was his ability to walk had greatly deteriorated. He had maintained his 
vision, ability to dress himself with assistance, ability to eat, and ability to use the restroom with assistance without 
incontinence. He had increasing fatigue (fatigue) in the evenings. He stated that his coordination was intact in his 
upper extremities. He used steroids in the past but stated that he felt minimal improvement at best. He believed 
intense heat can be associated with him symptoms of fatigue worsening. No other treatments noted. Neurological 
examination revealed inability to raise left arm (asthenia), reduced RAM (coordination abnormal) and sit in a 
wheelchair. Neurological examination: Lateral gazes associated with bilateral gaze which evoked nystagmus, facial 
asymmetry with reduced nasal/labial fold on the left. Left deviated ulna. Strength: 4/5 strength on left upper 
extremity with 4 + on arm extension, 4/5 hand strength on left, left finger and wrist extensor 3/5, right sided finger 
and wrist extensor was 4/5, right and left hip flexor was 3/5, leg and toes strength bilateral 0-1/5, toes strength 2-
3/5. Reflexes: DTR right upper extremity 2 +, left upper extremity was 3 + DTR, Bilateral patellar reflex was 4/5, 
positive hoffman's sign, foot clonus and positive baninski's sign, right lower extremity DTR 4/4. The patient also had
JC virus positive.
MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) C spine dated 27 Aug 2014 showed mild degenerative changes at C6-C7 level 
and multiple intra-axial lesions of cervical spinal cord and multiple small foci. MRI of brain with and without contrast 
showed multiple small foci of high T 2 signal are demonstrated.
Medical notes on 22 Sep 2014 stated He states his left (L) eye hurts to touch (eye pain). His vision had 
progressively worsened (visual acuity reduced) over the past year. He had difficulties getting out of chair especially 
in the evening. He was now a one person transfer when getting out of a chair. His legs were very weak (muscular 
weakness) and were unable to support his body weight. His arms were weak and could support his weight when 
getting out of a chair. He had significant anxiety when he was alone. 2 weeks ago, the patient had a fall. He fell (fall)
again on 21 Sep 2014 while transferring chair to chair. MRI showed, no active lesions whiteout MS, lesion were 
noted in C spine (central nervous system lesion). He would like to proceed with restarting Gilenya and the 
necessary eye exam and EKG. He would also like to pursue moving into assisted living. : The patient had 
worsening MS. Neurological Examination revealed lateral gazes associated with bilateral gaze evoked nystagmus 
(nystagmus). Facial asymmetry with reduced nasal/ labial fold on the left (facial asymmetry) was noted. 
Neurological examination: Left deviated ulna. Strength: 4/5 strength on left upper extremity with 4 + on arm 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 202 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
extension, 4/5 hand strength on left, left finger and wrist extensor 3/5, right sided finger and wrist extensor was 4/5, 
right and left hip flexor was 3/5, leg and toes strength bilateral 0-1/5, toes strength 2-3/5. Reflexes: DTR right upper 
extremity 2 +, left upper extremity was 3 + DTR, Bilateral patellar reflex was 4/5, positive hoffman's sign, foot clonus
and positive baninski's sign, right lower extremity DTR 4/4. The patient also had JC virus positive. He was taking 
Neurontin (gabapentin) and carbamazepine for trigeminal neuralgia V2 distribution. Depakote (valproate 
semisodium) for possible mood disorder (affective disorder) no history seizures. The patient received baclofen for 
night time myoclonic jerks (myoclonus) and Valium (diazepam) for anxiety in arm.
Medical notes on 10 Nov 2014 stated the patient was continued to be very weak and used transfer technique from 
wheelchair to wheelchair. He recently had an abscessed tooth pulled which was causing tooth pain (toothache). No 
known infection at this time. He had been off Gilenya for over 1 year. He was drowsy (somnolence) but oriented. 
His skin was dry. Upon follow up the nurse reported that, the patient was not on Gilenya. Neurological examination: 
Strength: 4/5 strength on left upper extremity with 4 + on arm extension, 4/5 hand strength on left, left finger and 
wrist extensor 3/5, right sided finger and wrist extensor was 4/5, right and left hip flexor was 3/5, leg and toes 
strength bilateral 0-1/5, toes strength 2-3/5. Reflexes: DTR right upper extremity 2 +, left upper extremity was 3 + 
DTR, Bilateral patellar reflex was 4/5, positive hoffman's sign, foot clonus and positive baninski's sign, right lower 
extremity DTR 4/4. The patient also had JC virus positive. Coordination test revealed reduced RAM and the patient 
was on wheel chair. MRI head and C-spine showed no acute lesions.
Medical notes dated 07 Apr 2015: The patient had gamma knife treatment for R trigeminal neuralgia which resolved
symptoms. The patient has been off MS medication for 3 years due to loss of insurance. He complained of 
excruciating L sided facial and mouth pains for 2 months which had worsened over past 2 weeks. Pains are his L 
side face from forehead down to jaw and inside the mouth. He cannot eat. The patient has been on narcotics, 
Neurontin, carbamazepine and baclofen. Pains occur every 3 to 4 minutes and it lasts from 15 seconds to a minute 
in duration. He had a sinus CT. The patient had a L upper molar 3 months ago and the dentist released him from 
follow up. He had trailed protein shakes and developed diarrhea. He also developed decubitus on his bottom from 
sitting in the wheel chair. He states that his MS has been stable but he was getting weak from not eating secondary
to mouth pain. His L eye has been swollen shut several mornings in the past 2 weeks. Physical examination 
revealed that he was malnourished and had pain episodes about 4-5 mins. Neurological examination revealed 
lateral gazes associated with bilateral gaze-evoked nystagmus. The patient's L eye was swollen and red. Facial 
sensation: pain and tenderness on the left facial in the V2-V3 area. The patient had facial asymmetry with reduced 
nasal/labial fold on the left. Left deviated ulna. Strength: inability to raise left arm, 3/5 strength on left upper 
extremity with 3 + on arm extension, 3/5 hand strength on left, left finger and wrist extensor 3/5, right sided finger 
and wrist extensor was 4/5, right and left hip flexor was 3/5, leg and toes strength bilateral 0-1/5, toes strength 2-
3/5. Reflexes: DTR right upper extremity 2 +, left upper extremity was 3 + DTR, bilateral patellar reflex was 4/5, 
positive hoffman's sign, foot clonus and positive baninski's sign, right lower extremity DTR 4/4. The patient also had
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 203 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
JC virus positive. Coordination test revealed reduced RAM and the patient was on wheel chair. The patient had left 
sided trigeminal neuralgia flare-up, no associated symptoms suggest MS exacerbation. The patient had severe L 
sided facial pains consistent with trigeminal neuralgia. The patient had trigeminal neuralgia flare which was treated 
surgically. Recently this has been worsened in the last 2-3 week with longer duration that can last for 1 min, no 
trigger. He was seen by dentist and had tooth extraction with no improvement. He went to a hospital and was given 
oxycodone. He has been tried on various seizure medications as well as gabapentin for trigeminal neuralgia. The 
patient had MS exacerbation which resulted in increase in dose of Amitriptyline and Lyrica sample was given.
The outcome of the events facial pain, oral pain and trigeminal neuralgia was reported as condition deteriorated 
and for other events, it was reported as unknown. Seriousness of the events was not reported. Seriousness 
assessment of multiple sclerosis and JC virus test positive was upgraded based on the available information in 
source document. Causality of the events was not reported.
Follow up report received from a nurse via patient oriented program Gilenya Go Program (POP00002581) on 17 
Feb 2015: Added suspect therapy details (action taken).
Combined follow up received from a physician and nurse on 04 Dec 2014 and on 15 Jun 2015: Added events 
extensor plantar response, Hoffmann's sign, JC virus test positive, facial pain, oral pain, decubitus ulcer, diarrhea, 
eye swelling, ocular hyperaemia and intervertebral disc degeneration. Added concomitant medications amitriptyline,
Lyrica, Betaseron, Oxycodone and Acetaminophen and updated therapy start date of Gilenya.