This spontaneous report was received from an other health professional (nurse), through social media, via a J&J 
employee and concerns an 8-year-old female patient from the United States: 016760791A.
The patient's height, weight and medical history were not reported. 
The patient was treated with ibuprofen (unspecified formulation, route, dose and frequency) initiated on an 
unspecified date for an unspecified indication. Non-company suspect interacting drugs included: guaifenesin 
(unspecified formulation, route, dose and frequency) initiated on an unspecified date for an unspecified indication. 
Concomitant medications were not reported.
It was reported that on an unspecified date, the patient was given ibuprofen and guaifenesin together (possible drug
interaction). On an unspecified date, the patient collapsed and suffered a heart attack, but they were able to revive 
her. It was further mentioned that the loss of oxygen damaged the patient's brain (hypoxic brain damage) and she 
was put on the respirator. After this she had four strokes (stroke) before she died after being taken off the 
respirator. The reporter did not know whether the patient was in the emergency room or admitted to hospital. It was 
not reported what lab work and tests were done. It was also mentioned that the doctors told the family that there 
have been quite a few children of the patient's age that have died recently the same way she did. The only common
link between them was that they were given ibuprofen and guaifenesin together. The doctors beleived that taking 
ibuprofen and guaifenesin together caused the heart attack. 
Action taken with ibuprofen and guaifenesin was not applicable.
The patient died from possible drug interaction, heart attack, hypoxic brain damage and stroke on an unspecified 
date. It was not reported if an autopsy was performed.
This report was serious (death).
This case version was created on 25-DEC-2014 for the purpose of quality improvement. Upon review the following 
corrections were made: The following statement "This case, from the same reporter is linked to 20141216948" was 
added (previously not mentioned in narrative).
Additional information was received on 22-DEC-2014.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 55 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Other identification number was added. This report contains no new medically information.
This case version (3) was created on 29-DEC-2014 for the purpose of quality improvement. Upon review the 
following corrections were made: The qualification of the secondary reporter was updated from consumer or other 
non-health professional to contact.
Follow-up information was received on 19-SEP-2015.
The report contained no new regulatory relevant information. No changes were made to the report.
Follow-up information was received on 24-SEP-2015.
This report contained no new regulatory relevant information and no changes were made to the report.
Revision to the information received on 24-SEP-2015. Upon review the following corrections were made: New 
version (6) was created to perform the administrative edit to change the Initiating Company Unit from McNCONS to 
JNJCONMCH in version (5).