A neurologist spontaneously reported that a 38 year old female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for relapsing 
remitting Multiple Sclerosis (diagnosed in Jul 2008) from 09 Mar 2011 to 22 Oct 2014 was hospitalized from an 
unknown date to an unknown date for suspected PML (onset (b) (6) ). The patient presented with MRI lesions
suspicious of PML infection on (b) (6)   CSF sampling was performed on(b) (6)  and will be shipped to 
(b) (6)  for JC virus determination (JCV DNA PCR). The event of suspected PML is ongoing. The causality for the 
event of suspected PML is unknown.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued.
Update 10 Nov 2014: Follow-up information was received from the neurologist via a PML Data Collection Form.
The patient was diagnosed with MS in Jul 2008.  MS symptoms included cognitive/behavioral, fatigue, depression, 
motor/focal, paraplegia in the legs, sensory/focal (NOS), and paresthesia of the fingers.  The patient was not 
received any prior immunosuppressant therapy.  Prior immunomodulatory therapy included Betaseron (interferon 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 275 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
beta-1b) from Dec 2008 to Mar 2011.  The suspect product was confirmed as TYSABRI (300 mg, IV) and the 
patient had received 45 doses.  TYSABRI therapy was started on 09 Mar 2011 and stopped on 07 Nov 2014.  The 
patient did not experience an interruption of TYSABRI for greater than three months.  On 09 Mar 2014, prior to 
starting TYSABRI (date discrepant), leukocyte count was 8.6 x10^3/ul and lymphocyte count was 36.6% (reference 
ranges not provided).  Prior to suspected PML diagnosis, the patient underwent MRI on 25 Jul 2014 (results not 
provided).  On 22 Oct 2014, prior to PML suspicion, leukocyte count was 8.5 x10^3/ul, lymphocyte count was 
45.7%, and neutrophil granulocytes were 43.2%.  The signs and symptoms which led to the evaluation for possible 
PML included focal sensory signs and symptoms (NOS).  At the time of suspected PML, the patient underwent MRI
on 06 Nov 2014 (previously reported).  On(b) (6) , the patient underwent lumbar puncture for CSF JCV DNA 
testing and results are pending as well as CSF analysis pending.  Brain biopsy has not been performed.  On (b) (6)
(b) (6)  at the time of PML suspicion (and pre-PLEX), leukocyte count was 12.49 G/L (reference range 3.0 - 9.6), 
absolute lymphocyte count was 4.38 G/L (reference range 1.5 - 4.0), and kreatinin was 34 umol/L (reference range 
44 - 80).  The patient is currently hospitalized.  The patient has not received treatment with plasma exchange as 
JCV results are pending.
Update 17 Dec 2014: Follow-up information was received from Swissmedic.  The 38 year old female patient 
suffered from RRMS diagnosed in Jul 2008 with "severe sequel."  The patient received a total of 45 infusions of 
TYSABRI (300 mg, IV), for multiple sclerosis, from 09 Mar 2011 to 22 Oct 2014. PML was suspected based on the 
results of a brain MRI on (b) (6) . JCV virus testing (presume CSF JCV DNA) on (b) (6)  was negative. 
However, plasmapheresis was nevertheless performed because of an urgent suspicion of extensive PML in the 
right lobulus parietalis superior and three additional contrast-medium enhanced punctiform foci (as for active 
demyelinating plaques). JCV virus testing (presume CSF JCV DNA) on(b) (6)  showed 15 copies/ml 
(detection limit 10 copies/ml) and a diagnosis of TYSABRI-induced PML was made. The patient began treatment 
with mefloquine and mirtazapine was started, because of experimental evidence of effectiveness in MS, as well 
anticonvulsive therapy with Keppra (levetiracetam). The serious criteria for the event of PML was provided as life-
threatening. The patient has not yet recovered. The Swissmedic comment noted that a causal relationship cannot 
formally be considered certain because it is not a renewed onset of the symptomatology after a repeated 
exposition. The medical reviewer of the health authority formally evaluates therefore the causality as probable 
(according to the WHO/CIOMS criteria) based on the temporal relationship, pathophysiological plausibility, good 
documentation in the product information, duration of Tysabri therapy since over 3.5 years, positive JCV test and 
absence of indices for alternative causes.
Update 13 Mar 2015: Follow-up information was received from Swissmedic (report ID 2014-07658). The reported 
event terms were PML (onset (b) (6)  ) and IRIS (onset (b) (6) ) which were considered life-threatening 
and not yet recovered. Regular MRI controls were performed to evaluate the evolution. MRI of the brain on (b)(6)
(b) (6)  (native and with contrast medium) showed very high suspicion of extended PML in the right lobulus 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 276 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
parietalis superior. Three new punctiform foci with contrast-medium enhancement conform to demyelinating 
plaques. Unchanged image of the numerous other supra- and infratentorial MS plaques. MRI of the brain on (b)(6)
(b) (6)  (native and with contrast medium) showed new findings of discrete progressive FLAIR-hyper-intensities 
including the U fiber in the right lobulus parietalis superior, still without proof of contrast-medium enhancement. 
Very high suspicion of extended PML. Unchanged images of the three punctiform foci with contrast-medium 
enhancement conform to demyelinating plaques. MRI of the brain on 24-Dec-2014 (native and with contrast 
medium) showed new findings of progressive lesions parietal right with additional contrast-medium enhancement 
(interpreted as sign of IRIS). In addition, progressive MS lesions with enhancement sub-insular right and frontal 
right.  Since 28-DEC-2015 (presumed 28 Dec 2014), the patient has received administration of Solumedrol 
(methylprednisolone; IV) in the context of PML/IRIS.  MRI of the brain on 03-Jan-2015 (native and with contrast 
medium) showed new findings of IRIS in the context of generally expanding PML, new restriction of diffusion in the 
hippocampus right, in the pulvinar thalamus right as well as in the gyrus cinguli right. Overall, marked progression 
of the contrast-medium enhancement by known IRIS in the context of PML. On 13-Feb-2015, administration of oral 
Cortisone (prednison 100 mg), followed by tapering-off scheme. The patient was also affected by a worsening 
fatigue. Marked focal neurological deficits were not observed, also not at the diagnosis of PML. Therapy with 
modafanil followed. On 13-JAN-2015, liquor (CSF) examination revealed 120 copies of JC-virus per milliliter. Since 
Jan-2015 new episode of the patient s known recurrent depressive disorder treated with venlafaxine. The patient 
cannot walk or stand, and she is therefore wheelchair-ridden. Causal relationship of TYSABRI to the reported 
events of PML and IRIS was assessed by SwissMedic as Probable/Likely.
Update 19 Mar 2015: Biogen Idec considers this case confirmed for PML based on positive CSF, consistent 
radiological findings, and clinical symptoms.
Update 01 Oct 2015: Additional information was received from the following on-line literature article: Jelcic I, 
Combaluzier B, Jelcic I, Faigle W, Senn L, Reinhart BJ, et al. Broadly neutralizing human monoclonal JC 
polyomavirus VP1-specific antibodies as candidate therapeutics for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. 
Infectious Disease 2015; 7(306); Suppl: www.ScienceTransiationaIMedicine.org (accessed). The authors stated 
that a 38-year-old Caucasian patient, suffering from active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS), developed
symptoms and signs of PML after three and one half years of TYSABRI treatment. The patient complained about 
dysfunction of the right hand and speech disorder caused by subcortical lesions in a frontoparietal area of the left 
side which were identified by MRI on an unknown date. TYSABRI-associated PML was diagnosed based on the 
presence of JCPyV DNA in the CSF and absence of other causes of PML. One month after plasmapheresis for 
clearance of TYSABRI, the patient developed symptoms and signs of PML-IRIS as indicated by subacute 
worsening of neurological deficits which were characterized by ataxia of the right arm, spastic hemiparesis of the 
right side and dysarthria. Also noted was slight gadolinium enhancement on MRI in the frontoparietal PML lesions. 
An initial course of high dose (l g per day for 5 days) methylprednisolone did not ameliorate the deficits, whereas a 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 277 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
second course of methylprednisolone treatment initiated one month after onset of PML-IRIS and tapered over nine 
months led to an improvement of coordination, motor and speech deficits and marked reduction of gadolinium 
enhancement and edema surrounding the PML lesions. After tapering of methylprednisolone the patient 
experienced a slight deterioration of the dysarthria and the paresis of her right leg, most probably because of slight 
re-activation of PML-IRIS. No new or contrast-enhancing cerebral MS-typical lesions, or signs of PML progression 
or contrast enhancement within the PML-lesion were detected in MRI, and the deficits improved after two months 
without further methylprednisolone treatment. No further clinical deterioration, which could be attributed to the PML 
lesions has occurred since then. JCPyV remained undetectable in the CSF since the onset of PML-lRIS up to date.