This solicited report was initially received from a consumer's spouse (patient's spouse) in the United States on 12-
Dec-2014 with additional information from the consumer (patient) on 12-Dec-2014. Follow up information was 
received from the physician's office on Jan-12-2015. Follow-up information received from the patient on 03-Mar-
2015.  A 56-year-old female patient with multiple sclerosis (MS), experienced bladder cancer/tumor in bladder/blood
in urine/an urinary tract infection (UTI) (medically significant, hospitalization), back surgery (medically significant) 
and JC virus while on Ampyra.
The patient's past medical history included MS and walking difficulty.  The patient had normal renal function prior to 
starting Ampyra.   Concomitant medications at onset included Baclofen, Nuvigil, Clonazepam, Cymbalta, Mirapex , 
Flovent, Ditropan, Vitamin D3, Vitamin C, Stool Softener (unspecified), Iron, Norco, Tysabri injections monthly for 
31 months.  Dosing information, start dates, routes of administration and indications for use were not provided.
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on 30-Jun-2014 at 10 mg orally twice daily (bid) for walking related to MS.  Tysabri
was a co-suspect medication started on an unspecified date at an unknown dosage regimen, via an unknown route,
for an unknown indication.
The patient's spouse reported that the patient is no longer taking Ampyra because of the patient's recent bladder 
cancer diagnosis (onset unspecified).  On 09-Jul-2014 (also reported as after 14 days on Ampyra), the patient 
noticed blood in her urine. After 4 days of bleeding, the patient stopped Ampyra on 13-Jul-2014 and called her 
doctor. After consulting with the doctor, the cause of the bleeding was determined to be a tumor in the bladder.
The patient was also given an unnamed antibiotic for UTI and was found to have the JC Virus. The patient also saw
a urologist/oncologist who found a tumor in the patient's bladder. The patient had surgery on(b) (6)  to 
remove the tumor and her conditions were considered resolved. Additionally, the patient had back surgery on (b)(6)
(b) (6)   Upon follow-up received 12-Jan-2014, the physician's office reported event onset on an unspecified 
date in Sep-2014 for the event bladder cancer, and event resolution date of (b) (6) .  The physician's office 
confirmed they are aware of the events. The physician's office stated that the patient was diagnosed with bladder 
cancer unrelated to use of Ampyra. It was also reported that the patient was hospitalized for the events, but the 
dates of hospitalization were not provided.   Additionally, the events blood in urine and urinary tract infection were 
resolved/recovered as of an unspecified date in Oct-2014.   Upon follow-up received on 03-Mar-2015, patient stated
that her back surgery was not related to Ampyra and did not provide a reason for the back surgery. On 25-Jun-
2014, patient was negative for JC virus. On 25-Jul-2014, she had the JC virus infection. Patient stopped Tysabri 
and waited 2 months to start Tecfidera (dimethyl fumarate).  Patient does not want her physician contacted.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 271 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The outcomes of JC virus and back surgery were unknown. The outcomes of the remaining events were 
recovered/resolved.
Ampyra dose was withdrawn on 13-Jul-2014.  Action taken with Tysabri was drug withdrawn.
The reporter (patient) assessed the relationship between Ampyra and the events as unknown. Upon follow-up 
received on 12-Jan-2015, the physician's office assessed the relationship between Ampyra and the events as not 
related.  Upon follow-up received on 03-Mar-2015, patient assessed the relationship between Ampyra and back 
surgery as not related and between Ampyra and JC virus as unknown. 
Follow up information received from the physician's office on Jan-12-2015 provided negative pregnancy status, 
patient's renal function status, event onset and resolution dates for the event bladder cancer, event confirmation, 
dechallenge/rechallenge information, causality and  event resolution dates for blood in urine and urinary tract 
infection.  This information has been incorporated into the narrative.
Follow-up information received from the patient on 03-Mar-2015 provided co-suspect (Tysabri) causality, lab test, 
event start date for JC virus. Upon internal review on 12-Mar-2015 the physician's causality was amended. This 
information has been incorporated into the narrative.
This report, which was submitted previously as an expedited report, no longer meets the criteria for expedited 
reporting as, upon receipt of follow-up information, the causality was updated from related to not related. Therefore,
further follow-up will not be submitted as an expedited report(s) unless there is a change to the reportability of the 
case.