A treating neurologist spontaneously reported that a female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple 
Sclerosis since 19 Nov 2009 experienced PML (onset unknown).  Internal databases indicated that the patient's 
first MS symptoms were in Feb 2009 and the patient was enrolled in the(b) (6)  At the 
time of this report, the TOUCH database indicated that the patient had received a total of 60 infusions of TYSABRI 
from 19 Nov 2009 to 17 Oct 2014.  The neurologist indicated that the patient was a confirmed PML case. An MRI 
(date unknown) showed new brain lesions characteristic of PML. The patient tested CSF JCV DNA positive and 
had been gradually deteriorating neurologically for the last 7-8 weeks. Treatment for the event was not provided. 
The event of PML is ongoing. Causality for the event of PML was assessed as possibly related by the neurologist.
TYSABRI therapy continues.
Update 08 Dec 2014: A nurse with the prescribing neurologist's office spontaneously reported that the female 
patient had PML (onset unknown). The nurse indicated that the patient was currently in the hospital (date of 
admission not provided). Causality for the event was unknown. 
Update 08 Dec 2014: A prescribing neurologist reported via a Biogen Idec Area Business Manager (ABM) that the 
female patient enrolled in a Biogen Idec sponsored program of Monitored Therapy was diagnosed with PML (onset 
Dec 2014). At the time of this report, the patient was "currently on a feeding tube." Causality for the event was 
assessed as possibly related. TYSABRI therapy was discontinued. 
Update 09 Dec 2014: Upon telephone follow-up, the prescribing neurologist reported via a Biogen Idec 
representative that the patient had secondary progressive MS. In Sep 2014, the prescribing neurologist thought the 
patient had an MS relapse. MRI at the time (date not provided) showed enhancing lesion. The patient was treated 
with steroids (NOS) without improvement and was worsening. The patient's last dose of TYSABRI was on 17 Oct 
2014. Following TYSABRI, the patient was placed on another drug (NOS) for SPMS and her symptoms got worse. 
Around Thanksgiving, the patient experienced walking and speech difficulty. The patient was hospitalized and 
tapped. CSF (presume CSF JCV DNA) was almost 600,000 copies/ml. 
Update 09 Dec 2014: Upon telephone follow-up with the treating neurologist, the neurologist reported that the 
patient was admitted on (b) (6)  A lumbar puncture was performed on 26 Nov 2014 and sent to (b) (6)  and 
CSF JCV DNA returned positive at 595,287 copies/ml. MRI performed on (b) (6)  showed significant interval 
progression - large increased FLAIR/T2 signal in right hemisphere with great extension; non enhancing. A prior MRI
was performed on 28 Oct 2014 which showed right frontal parietal non enhancing lesion (at that time the MRI was 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 224 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
read as MS lesion). The patient is still currently hospitalized as of (b) (6)  and is awaiting treatment options.
Update 09 Dec 2014: The treating neurologist provided medical records which included hospital visit notes, CSF 
results, and MRI results. On (b) (6)  the 54 year old female patient was admitted with a chief complaint of 
pulmonary congestion.  Past medical history included multiple sclerosis, cervical cancer status post incision and 
drainage/cauterization 22 years ago, and hypothyroidism. Concomitant medications included Ampyra 
(dalfampridine) aspirin (acetyl salicylic acid), baclofen, estradiol, levothyroxine, medroxyprogesterone, pilocarpine, 
pramipexole, and Lyrica (pregabalin).  The patient started having an MS flare back in Sep [2014]. The patient 
followed up with her neurologist after an MRI showed some plaquing (date unknown). A repeat MRI was performed 
on 28 Oct 2014 which did show plaques consistent with an MS flare. The patient's husband indicated that the 
patient simply cannot talk and, although the neurologist did not see any new plaques, since the patient had 
persistent symptoms of left-sided weakness, some mild dysphasia, and some slurred speech, a lumbar puncture 
was performed on 26 Nov 2014. Results of the lumbar puncture were as follows: increased protein of 63; IgG and 
IgG index were elevated at 3.66 and 1.38 respectively; oligoclonal bands were elevated at greater than 5; glucose 
was elevated at 75; cultures were negative. The patient's symptoms were noted to be persistent. The patient was 
started on Ampyra "earlier in the week" in hopes to control the flare. The husband indicated that, over the past 
week, the patient has experienced chest congestion, and difficulty swallowing both liquids and solids, which is why 
the patient was brought to the hospital. Physical examination showed that the patient was alert, seemingly oriented 
x 3, but unable to speak due to the profound weakness. The patient had a labile mood and was quite tearful at 
times, though not in any acute distress. The patient was noted to have very poor respiratory efforts, though the 
doctor could not appreciate any wheezes or crackles. The patient had pretty significant facial muscle weakness 
bilaterally actually, otherwise no real focal cranial nerve deficits. It was noted that the patient had 0/5 strength on 
her entire left side and normal reflexes bilaterally. However, the patient had upgoing Babinski's bilaterally. The 
patient's basic metabolic panel came back normal (date unknown) and her CBC was normal except for a white cell 
count of 19,000 (date unknown). Urinalysis (date unknown) was turbid with 4+ ketones, positive nitrite, 2+ leukocyte
esterase, 106 white cells, many bacteria, too numerous to count hyaline casts, and 15-25 red cells.  A chest x-ray 
(date unknown) was clear; no pathology seen. An EKG (date unknown) showed normal sinus rhythm, rate of 88 
with normal access. No Q-wave. No acute ST changes. The patient does have some inverted T-waves in leads V4-
V6. The patient was diagnosed with a urinary tract infection (onset unknown). Treatment for the urinary tract 
infection included Rocephin (ceftriaxone). It was noted that the patient would be started on Lovenox (enoxaparin) 
for deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis.
A neurology consultation on (b) (6)  reported that the patient was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in summer
of 2009. The patient had her last infusion of TYSABRI approximately a month and a half ago. It was noted that the 
patient was due for an infusion two weeks ago but, given her neurological deterioration, the infusion was put on 
hold by the prescribing neurologist. The patient's JCV antibody titer was unknown. The patient was suspected to 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 225 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
have had a multiple sclerosis relapse at the end of Sep [2014]. Prior to that, the patient hadn't had any relapses for 
over 2 years according to the patient's husband. At baseline the patient was described as ambulatory assisted by a 
cane, sometimes using a walker but otherwise fairly functional. Her medication list included baclofen and 
dalfampridine to improve her ambulation. Per the patient's husband, on 27 Sep 2014 the patient was attending a 
family gathering when she was noted to have left facial drooping that apparently resolved sometime later. An MRI 
was performed on 29 Sep 2014 with and without contrast, which showed a new subcortical white matter lesion in 
the inferolateral right parietal region just above the sylvian fissure with faint peripheral enhancement. There were 
more extensive multiple sclerosis plaques in the periventricular regions bilaterally felt to be generally stable.  There 
was some slight improvement on the left-sided lesions and also in lesions at the brain stem. This was compared to 
a previous MRI from 03 Aug 2009. A carotid ultrasound (date unknown) showed no hemodynamically significant 
stenosis. The patient was treated with a short taper of oral steroids (NOS). A repeat MRI of the brain with and 
without contrast was performed on 28 Oct 2014, which showed increased edema in the right frontoparietal region in
the subcortical white matter compared to the previous exam with no abnormal enhancement. There were several 
other foci of high signal intensity in the periventricular white matter and brainstem typical of multiple sclerosis 
unchanged since the previous exam.  The area of increased signal intensity does not enhance with gadolinium and 
its appearance is highly suspicious for PML. An MRA of the brain (date unknown) revealed no plaque or stenosis. 
No aneurysm or vascular occlusion. The patient received a 5-day course of Acthar injections (adrenocorticotropic 
hormone). Approximately a week and a half after the left facial drooping, the patient began noticing numbness and 
weakness that had started in her left hand and arm and eventually involved the left side of her body including the 
left lower extremity. Symptoms became progressive within the past 7-8 weeks. The patient's speech became 
garbled and difficult to understand, eventually becoming aphasic. The husband indicated that he could understand 
what the patient was saying about a week ago, but now she just grunts and is unable to say words. The patient also
developed increasing difficulties walking to the point of becoming non ambulatory. A lumbar puncture was 
performed on 26 Nov 2014 and, in addition to values previously reported above, was clear and colorless with WBC 
= 3; RBC = 22; normal myelin basic protein at 3.7. The patient's CSF JCV DNA test was ordered, but the results 
were not back at the time of the neurologist's consult. It was noted that since the patient's condition deteriorated 
and she developed some chest congestion, lethargy and a strong odor in her urine, the family brought her to the ER
yesterday morning ((b) (6) ). In the ER, the patient's abnormal lab values included a white count of 19,600 
and a creatinine of 0.35. A chest x-ray on (b) (6)  when compared to a chest x-ray from yesterday (presumed
reference to previously reported clear chest x-ray) showed interval development of left lower lobe atelectasis, less 
likely infiltrate and a small left pleural effusion. A modified barium swallow performed on (b) (6)  showed a 
high risk of tracheal aspiration with oral feedings. An ABG on (b) (6)  showed a pH of 7.39, pCO2 of 27.2, 
pO2 of 63.0, with an O2 saturation of 92% on 4 liters of oxygen by nasal cannula. The family denies any recent 
fever or chills. The husband noted that the patient does not seem to pay attention to her left side. The patient 
frequently grimaces as though she is in pain. Physical examination indicated that the patient was aphasic and made
some grunting noises. The patient seemed able to follow very simple commands and was noted to have left-sided 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 226 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
neglect. The patient had left lower facial weakness and attempted to protrude her tongue out. It was noted that the 
patient had normal strength with right upper and lower extremities. The patient did not seem to recognize the left 
upper or lower extremities. Some spontaneous movements were noted in her left leg. There was marked spasticity 
on the left side and to a milder degree on the right side. Deep tendon reflexes were brisker on the left side and both
plantar responses were extensor.  Sensory exam could not reliably be tested. The neurologist indicated that the 
patient's neurological decline and MRI findings were certainly worrisome for PML. A repeat MRI was ordered. The 
patient was noted to have a urinary tract infection and is suspected to have pneumonia which could likely be from 
aspiration (onset unknown) given her dysphagia. Causality for the events of urinary tract infection and suspected 
aspiration pneumonia was not assessed.
On (b) (6)  the results of the 26 Nov 2014 CSF JCV DNA came back at 595,287 copies/ml (reference range 
<500 copies/ml). A repeat MRI of the brain and brainstem with and without contrast was performed on (b) (6)
and, when compared the MRI from 28 Oct 2014, indicated there had been significant interval worsening. A rather 
large area of abnormally increased FLAIR and T2 signal has developed in the right hemisphere considerable more 
extensive than on the prior study. Minimal positive contrast enhancement is noted in this area. There are numerous
findings here than would be typical of multiple sclerosis. This large progressive lesion in the right hemisphere would
be somewhat atypical, but still could be related to demyelination associated with multiple sclerosis. The possibility 
of PML should also be considered here. 
Update 10 Dec 2014: A registered nurse from the prescribing neurologist's office spontaneously re-reported via a 
Biogen Idec Medical Science Liaison (MSL) that the female patient experienced PML (onset (b) (6) ). The 
nurse indicated that the patient was still in the hospital and was awaiting plasma exchange. Causality for the event 
was assessed as related.
Update 10 Dec 2014: Upon follow-up, the treating neurologist reported that the prescribing neurologist consulted 
with a third neurologist and they are implementing the consulting neurologist's treatment protocol (NOS).
Update 16 Dec 2014: The following serum JCV antibody results were obtained from the (b) (6) study: 11 Oct 
2010 = detected (index 0.938); 12 Oct 2011 = detected (index 1.073); 04 Sep 2013 = positive (index 3.25); 10 Dec 
2013 = positive (index 2.07); 09 Apr 2014 = positive (index 2.99); 11 Jul 2014 = positive (index 3.8); 17 Oct 2014 = 
positive (index 2.67).
Update 18 Dec 2014: On 18 Dec 2014, Biogen Idec considers this case confirmed for PML based on positive CSF, 
consistent radiologic findings, and clinical symptoms.
Update 18 Dec 2014: Upon follow-up, a neurologist reported via a Biogen Idec MSL that the patient had been 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 227 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
transferred to the ICU. On 17 Dec 2014, the patient became very lethargic, could not protrude her tongue, and 
developed left-sided paralysis. Per the MD, the patient does not have IRIS. An MRI from last week (specific date 
not provided) actually showed resolution of the PML lesions. The patient was not doing well overall. They are 
questioning if the patient is septic or having an acute pneumonia.
Update 05 Jan 2015: Follow-up information received from the physician reported that the patient died from 
pneumonia.  No further information was provided.
Update 05 Jan 2015: Follow-up information received from the physician reported that the patient died due to PML.
The patient was noted to have been on TYSABRI for approximately 5 years and had a high JCV index.
Update 09 Jan 2015: Follow-up information received from an unspecified consumer indicated the date of death was
19 Dec 2014.  No further information was provided.