Information was received on 28-Dec-2014.   This is a spontaneous, published case reported by a physician 
referring to a 60 year-old female patient who experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy during 
Prograf (tacrolimus) treatment. 
Citations Included
 - Carlson N, Hansen JM Fatal Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy in a Kidney Transplant Recipient 19 
Years After Successful Renal Allograft Transplantation. Transplantation Proceedings. 2014; vol. 46; pp. 2403-5. 
Other suspect medications included mycophenolic acid.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 297 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Historical condition included kidney failure, autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, post-transplant diabetes 
mellitus, hypertension and renal insufficiency; and Procedure included renal allograft transplantation.  Historical 
medications included cyclosporine and azathioprine.
Concomitant medications included methylprednisolone. 
The patient received Tacrolimus for immunosuppression according to the following dosage regimen: (start date not 
provided) - (stop date not provided): Unknown route, dose and freq.
On an unspecified date the patient developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML).   In (b) (6)  
 the patient was hospitalized with suspected uremic encephalopathy and dialysis was initiated. Despite 
declining azotemia, cerebral impairment persisted. Biochemistry demonstrated normal infectious parameters, 
normal immunoglobulin status, normal thyroid status, and no significant electrolyte or other metabolic derangement 
than uremia. Symptoms progressed with development of focal neurologic deficits including anomia and facial nerve 
paralysis. PML was confirmed by a clearly positive qualitative JCV DNA polymerase chain reaction in the 
cerebrospinal fluid. Treatment was initiated with discontinuation of immunosuppressive therapy. The patient was 
transferred to another hospital. The patient s cerebral status deteriorated with development of progressive global 
aphasia, hemiparesis, partial epilepsy, and somnolence. Because of the patient s severe renal insufficiency, no 
antiviral therapy was considered viable. Approximately(b)(6)  months after the onset of symptoms, death ensued.
Lab data included
 - Oct-1993: Biopsy kidney Acute Rejection
On unspecified date: Renal allograft biopsy- chronic allograft nephropathy, acute humoral rejection
(b) (6)  Urinary JCV PCR: negative
(b) (6)  Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging: Unambiguous progression with extensive abnormalities in frontal
and parietal lobes. 
(b) (6)  Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for BK virus and cytomegalovirus was negative.
(b) (6)  Computed tomography of the brain demonstrated an uncharacteristic hypointensity in the left frontal lobe
(b) (6)  Magnetic resonance imaging: cerebral foci of demyelination and gliosis characterized by abnormal 
increased signal in the left frontal lobe.
Tacrolimus and other immunosuppressive treatment was withdrawn on an unknown date. 
The patient expired on an unspecified date due to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. 
The outcome of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was reported as fatal.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 298 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The physician assessed the following events with respect to Tacrolimus: 
 - Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (seriousness: Death; causality: Possible).
The author noted the case underscores the possible influence of conversion of immunosuppressive treatment with 
reactivation of PML.
No further information is expected.