AER number 1515153 is a literature - spontaneous case, received on 29/Dec/2014 and concerns a 63 years old 
male patient who died due to fatal aspiration pneumonia and also developed progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML), sepsis, viral pneumonia, gastrointestinal clostridial infection, cystitis while treated with 
rituximab, cyclophosphamide, fludarabine phosphate and lenalidomide.
The patient aged 50 years at presentation, was noted to have lymphocytosis on a routine complete blood cell count 
in 1996 and thus diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) was made. By 1999, he required treatment and 
received fludarabine for five treatment cycles, followed by fludarabine-rituximab for three treatment cycles. His 
complete blood cell count normalized following therapy. However, by December 2001, he required treatment again 
because of a rising white cell count, splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy. At that time, he received fludarabine, 
cyclophosphamide and rituximab (FCR) for four treatment cycles, complicated by autoimmune hemolytic anemia. 
His CLL responded to therapy but by January 2006, he required therapy again and was treated with oral 
fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab for three treatment cycles without response and then with intravenous
FCR for three treatment cycles, ending in July 2006 and resulting in a nodular partial response. In 2007, CLL 
progressed and he received a two-week course of lenalidomide that was interrupted when he developed weakness 
of the right upper extremity evolving to paralysis, attributed to PML based on clinical and MRI findings; 
cerebrospinal fluid viral studies were initially non-diagnostic. Later in 2007, JCV was detected in the cerebrospinal 
fluid, assuring the diagnosis of PML. The MRI showed demyelinated foci. In September 2007, he received a five-
day course of cytarabine for the treatment of PML. In October-November 2007, he developed refractory focal motor
seizures and was treated with high-dose cytarabine, valproic acid, levetiracetam and clonazepam. In December 
2007, he received investigational natural killer cell therapy. In February 2008, he was treated with infusions of 
CD3/CD28 ex vivo carried out-stimulated autologous T-cells on a compassionate use protocol at the(b) (6)
 in an attempt to reverse his therapy-related immunodeficiency and to enhance antiviral immunity. He 
also received intravenous immunoglobulin. In May and June 2008, he received investigational JC polyomavirus 
(JCV) peptide pulsed dendritic cell vaccinations with granulocyte monocyte colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 290 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Although neurologically stable at this point, he developed severe anemia with brisk hemolysis and symptomatic 
massive splenomegaly and underwent splenectomy in (b) (6)  Other treatment modalities for PML include 
mirtazapine and cyproheptadine, 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A (5HT2A) serotonin blockers. In (b) (6)  the patient
underwent human leukocyte antigen-matched sibling allogeneic stem cell transplantion following a 
nonmyeloablative preparative regimen that included fludarabine, melphalan and total body irradiation (200 cGy). 
The donor of bone marrow was the patient's (b) (6)  Shortly after transplantation, the patient suffered from 
intercurrent sepsis caused by Pseudomonas sp., then contracted viral pneumonia and, subsequently, 
gastrointestinal clostridial infection. About three months post-transplantation, following reduction of 
immunosuppression and a donor lymphocyte infusion, the patient developed gastrointestinal involvement by graft-
versus-host disease, confirmed by biopsy of large intestine. Graft-versus-host disease later became manifest in the
patient's skin. About five months post-transplantation, after an episode of enterococcal cystitis treated with 
Augmentin, JCV disease progressed rapidly. This decline happened two years after the first diagnosis of JCV 
infection. The patient developed tetraparesis, rapidly lost vigilance, and died from respiratory and septic 
complications due to aspiration pneumonia. Macroscopic analysis. In the macroscopic autopsy analysis of the 
brain, no pathological changes were evident at first sight. The brain weighed 1,230 g, and had a smooth surface 
with normal meninges. The hemispheres were symmetric. Frontotemporally, 3x3x3 cm areas of necrosis were 
noted bilaterally. In the right thalamus, a macerated area of 0.6 cm that was clearly circumscribed and in the basal 
ganglia several focal necroses (about 0.4 cm each) were noted. The medulla oblongata was rather pale, and also 
featured signs of necrosis. Histology. In the frontal cortex, the cytoarchitecture was widely normal, but within the 
white matter, focal gliosis encircling demyelinated areas was found. Oligodendroglial JCV enclosure was visible and
immunohistochemical staining with JCV antibodies displayed positivity. CD68-positive macrophages loaded with 
virus particles, commonly seen in PML, were detected in this patient. The autopsy findings of the brain 
demonstrated active JCV infection, with distinct demyelination corresponding to classic PML.
The outcome of events progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), sepsis, viral pneumonia, 
gastrointestinal clostridial infection, cystitis was not reported.
The authors reported that, patients undergoing immunomodulatory therapy are at a higher risk for JCV infection. 
Even if an individual is not severely immune-suppressed, therapy with biological agents may facilitate reactivation of
JCV infection and consequently PML.
The company has assessed causality as possible since a temporal correlation cannot be ruled out at this time but 
the patient's immunocompromised state and other immunosuppresive  agents makes the patient susceptible to 
infections regardless if they are taking rituximab or not. 
The company assessed the events progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) and sepsis as medically 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 291 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
significant.
No further information was provided.
Smolle E, Trojan A, Schuster S and Haybaeck, J 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy-A case report and review of the literature. 
In Vivo 2014;28(5):941-948.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML.