AER 1515175 is a spontaneous case, received on 29/Dec/2014 from a physician via Norwegian Medicines Agency 
(Norway: NO-NOMAADVRE-RELISM-2014-18906) and concerns a 63 year old female patient who developed 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and died while being treated with rituximab (MabThera).
She was a smoker. Medical history included constipation, osteoporosis, migraine, tingling around the mouth and 
fingers, difficulty breathing and mental problems. Concomitant medication included methotrexate. Past drugs 
included etanercept (Enbrel). No concurrent conditions were reported.
She had an active destructive rheumatoid arthritis since 1979. The treatment followed the principles that are 
common in medical practice. The department's documentation doesn't state what information the patient has 
received about treatment. It states that the information was given by common guidelines and that she tolerated the 
medicine well. The further development has been in line with good medical practice treatment and monitoring of 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 284 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
patients with arthritis. She was treated after common guidelines within rheumatology treatment with methotrexate in
tablet form, and eventually injectable form (Metoject). She needed an additional drug that could get the disease to 
come to rest. From 2004, she received TNF inhibitor in the form of etanercept (Enbrel) with good effect. Treatment 
with etanercept was discontinued in 2008 due to adverse reactions in the form of tingling around the mouth and 
fingers, difficulty breathing and mental problems. The arthritis got worse after the treatment was discontinued. 
Treatment with rituximab was started in 2008. She then had disease registration indicating active disease with 
swelling in the elbow and knees, and blood samples indicating an active inflammation. On 19/Nov/2008, the patient 
started intravenous drip of rituximab (1000 mg, frequency not reported) for rheumatoid arthritis. She had good 
effect of the rituximab treatment with subjective improvement in the joints. She received the subsequent infusions 
of rituximab on Jun/2009, May/2010, Mar/2012, Oct/2012, May/2013, Dec/2013. She began to have a decreased 
vision in Jan/2014 and went to 5 opticians who noted that her vision was well, despite the fact that she did not have 
vision. Infusion number 2 of Aug/2014 was not given and the treatment was paused due to the detection of 
impaired vision that was to be investigated. She got her last dose on 18/Aug/2014, after which the symptoms 
escalated. The patient had good effect of the treatment on the arthritis every time. The patient had a disability due 
to her arthritis, but was functioning well and stable on her function level in her daily life. Especially when the arthritis 
medicines worked well, she had a good life socially and in her family. The visual loss was assessed, including with 
CT caput. Changes were found and first described as multiple infarcts, both in occipital- and parietal areas, 
interpreted as cortical vision loss. CT of Caput showed by careful investigation that changes could represent other 
conditions such as tumour, encephalopathy or PML. She visited an ophthalmologist straight afterwards who 
recommended an MRI of the head which was performed on 25/Aug/2014. The radiologists who interpreted it found 
that this examination showed, that she had had a stroke, but uncertain where and when. It was recommended that 
she would take a new MRI with contrast. In total she received 15 infusions of rituximab over approximately six 
years. On 04/Sep/2014, computerised tomogram head (CT brain scan) showed hypoattenuated lesions left parietal 
lobe. In Sep/2014, the patient received immunosuppressive treatment for active rheumatoid arthritis that led to 
reactivation of JC virus infection. This led to the diagnosis of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
The relatives further stated that she had an "attack" on the same day where she was very dizzy. She could not 
manage to stand on her feet because of the dizziness, she had difficulties accounting for herself and had very high 
blood pressure. She was then hospitalized and a CT showed the same as the MRI had showed, and they continued
the examinations on the basis of the MRI that was taken in August. She was hospitalized for almost one week 
where several examinations were made, but they could not find something wrong. It was furthermore requested 
that a neurological examination be performed, but they could not identify anything wrong. She also underwent an 
heart examination with ultrasound and scope, in relation to finding out where the blood clot may have arised from. 
In addition to this she also took some tests of some nodules on her neck due to an accidental discovery made on 
the CT. The relatives also stated that she had also repeatedly been visiting her general practitioner during the 
spring and in the fall to get help as she did not feel in good shape. When suspicion of PML occurred, all 
immunosuppressive treatment was stopped. On 15/Nov/2014, CT brain scan showed hypoattenuated lesion left 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 285 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
parietal lobe increased. On (b) (6)  she was admitted to the stroke unit with a suspected new stroke. After an 
MRI with contrast was taken, they said that it looked like she could have PML, and the diagnosis was made when 
cerebrospinal fluid test was taken, and this came out positive on the JC virus. On (b) (6)  nuclear magnetic 
resonance imaging brain (MRI) revealed pathological changes left parital lobe progressed. The treating physician 
informed that the patient did not receive the patient alert card. The physician also reported that he had received 
these according to RMinA timelines, but they had not taken them in use. On (b) (6)  the patient underwent 
examinations at an ophthalmologist. On (b) (6)  she was examined by the rheumatologist. On (b) (6) ,
she was put on mirtazapine (Remeron) to test if that could be of help against the PML. On (b) (6)  an MRI 
with contrast was taken and there they saw a worsening of the clinical picture. On (b) (6)  she got a place at 
a nursing home. An MRI with contrast was performed in the beginning of Jan/2015 and also a visual educator. She 
was also prescribed antidepressant medication by her GP (general physician), in addition to strong painkillers. She 
was becoming increasingly sicker by PML caused by the reactivated JC-virus infection. The patient died on 
(b) (6)  due to PML. It was not reported whether an autopsy was performed or not. 
The physician assessed that it was highly probable that PML had occurred as a result of treatment with rituximab. 
PML, caused by reactivation of JC-virus, occurs almost exclusively in immunocompromised patients. 
No further information was available.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML
Additional information was received on 27/Oct/2015, the following information was added to the case : clinical 
course updated (the treating physician informed that the patient did not receive the patient alert card. He had 
received these according to their RMinA timelines, but they had not taken them in use).
Additional information was received on 27/Jan/2015. The following information was added to the case : Medical 
history (tingling around the mouth and fingers, difficulty breathing and mental problems), past drugs (etanercept), 
event outcome of PML changed to fatal (previously persisting), date of death ((b) (6) ), therapy dates of 
rituximab infusion, therapy status of rituximab changed to withdrawn, lab test, drug used to treat AE (mirtazapine), 
reporter causality changed to related (previously not reported), event description.