This is a literature spontaneous report from Journal of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, 2014, Vol 12 
(12), pages 1660-1664, entitled, "Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy after allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation for acute myeloid Leukemia." The initial case was missing the following minimum criteria: 
Unspecified product. Upon receipt of follow-up information on 06Jan2015 this case now contains all required 
information to be considered valid. The author reported 2 patients experienced progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. This is first of two reports and referred to case 1 in article.
A 69 year-old man was diagnosed with acute myelomonocytic leukemia with complex cytogenetics and an FLT3-TD
mutation. His disease failed to respond to initial induction therapy with idarubicin and high dose cytarabine, and the 
patient instead received salvage therapy that included AC220 and experienced a morphologic complete remission. 
He was subsequently treated with decitabine until undergoing a 10/10 HLA matched unrelated donor allogeneic 
BMT Donor and recipient were both cytomegalovirus negative. His conditioning regimen consisted of fludarabine, 
40 mg/m2 for 4 days and pharmacokinetic dose-adjusted busulfan targeting a daily area under the curve of 4000 
Mol/min. Post transplant, the patient received cyclophosphamide, 50 mg/kg on posttransplant day 3 and 4 and 
tacrolimus for immunosuppression. On posttransplant day 26, results of a bone marrow biopsy showed full donor 
chimerism and no evidence of AML. He then developed steroid-refractory grade III acute skin and colon graft 
versus- host disease (GYHD) on posttransplant day 55, which was initially treated with methylprednisolone, 2 
mg/kg, and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF). Because of an inadequate response, MMF was discontinued and the 
patient received 1 cycle of pentostatin, 1.5 mg/m2 on days 1 through 3 (posttransplant day 63-65) with good 
response. On continued improvement of the patient's GYHD, tacrolimus and prednisone were complete completely 
tapered by post transplant day 140. On post transplant day 315, the patient experienced new-onset expressive 
aphasia and right upper extremity dyspraxia. A brain MRI showed a 1.7 x 2.0-cm periventricular lesion in the left 
centrum semiovale involving the white matter with peripheral T2 enhancement. Results of cerebro spinal fluid 
(CSF) cellular, biochemical, and routine microbiology studies were within normal limits, but qualitative CSF PCR 
was positive for JCV, consistent with a diagnosis of PML, and serum PCR showed 1724 copies/mL of JCV DNA. 
The absolute CD4+ T cell count was low at 178 cells/ L and the CD8+ T cell count was 372 cells/ L. The patient 
was started on therapy with mefloquine, 250 mg/d for 3 days followed by 250 mg weekly, and mirtazapine, 30 mg/d.
He also received 1 dose of intravenous immunoglobulin at 0.5 g/kg. After day 25 of mefloquine and mirtazapine 
therapy, the patient showed continued rapid neurologic decline and therapy was discontinued. A donor lymphocyte 
infusion was considered to facilitate immune reconstitution, but because of the patient's severe irreversible and 
progressive neurologic damage, the decision was made to transition the patient to hospice care. He expired shortly 
afterwards on posttransplant day 361.
Discussion:
This report presents 2 cases of PML diagnosed after allogeneic BMT in the setting of marked T cell lymphopenia. 
To the authors knowledge, these are also the first reported cases of PML in adult patients who received pentostatin
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 325 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(Case 1) and ATG (Case 2). As demonstrated in these cases, PML is also becoming increasingly recognized as a 
serious complication of allogeneic stem cell transplantation. 
The necessity of posttransplant immunosuppression to prevent GVHD provides a fertile environment for 
opportunistic infections, such as JCV, to flourish. Along with conventional immunosuppression with tacrolimus, the 
patient in Case 1 received additional immunosuppression with post transplant cyclophosphamide to mitigate 
alloreactive T cell proliferation, and steroids, MMF, and pentostatin to treat the grade III acute skin and colon 
GVHD. Prolonged CD4+ lymphopenia has been observed after fludarabine-based regimens for chronic lymphocytic
leukemia. Therefore, the use of a purine analogue (pentostatin) for the treatment of steroid- refractory GVHD may 
have contributed to the sustained depression of CD4+ T cells, even after all immunosuppression had been 
completely tapered off for almost 6 months. In Case 2, it is probable that ATG was a significant contributor to the 
patient's prolonged T cell lymphopenia, a well described phenomenon in the solid organ transplant literature. 
However, it is generally difficult to implicate a single immunosuppressive agent as the inciting reason for the 
development of PML, because most patients who develop PML after allogeneic BMT are exposed to more than one
immunosuppressive drug. Although immunosuppression is an unavoidable risk in patients undergoing allogeneic 
BMT, the present cases highlight the potential fatal complications of the resultant impaired cellular immunity and T-
cell lymphopenia that occurs with time. However, a phase I/II clinical trial (ClinicaITrials.gov identifier: 
NCTOO746941) that studied the effects of mefloquine in patients with PML was terminated early because it failed 
to reduce the titer of JCV in the CSF after treatment, a finding consistent with the outcome of the patient described 
in Case 1.
Pfizer is Marketing Authorization Holder of methylprednisolone, cyclophosphamide and mycophenolate mofetil in 
the reporter's country. This may be a duplicate report in situations where another Marketing Authorization Holder of 
methylprednisolone, cyclophosphamide and mycophenolate mofetil has submitted the same report to the regulatory
authorities.