Case number PHHY2014AT170822 is a literature report initially received on 30 Dec 2014 with a follow-up (full text 
article) received on 08 Jan 2015. The author discussed about a case report on a patient who developed 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) during treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). This 
report refers to a 50-year-old male patient.  The patient was noted to have lymphocytosis on a routine complete 
blood cell count in 1996 and thus diagnosis of CLL was made. By 1999, he required treatment and received 
fludarabine (unknown manufacturer) for five treatment cycles, followed by fludarabine-rituximab for three treatment 
cycles. His complete blood cell count normalized following therapy. However, by Dec 2001, he required treatment 
again because of a rising white cell count, splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy. At that time, he received 
fludarabine, cyclophosphamide (unknown manufacturer) and rituximab (FCR) for four treatment cycles, 
complicated by autoimmune hemolytic anemia. His CLL responded to therapy but by Jan 2006, he required therapy
again and was treated with oral fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab for three treatment cycles without 
response and then with intravenous FCR for three treatment cycles, ending in Jul 2006 and resulting in a nodular 
partial response. In 2007, CLL progressed and he received a two-week course of lenalidomide that was interrupted 
when he developed weakness of the right upper extremity evolving to paralysis, attributed to PML based on clinical 
and MRI findings; cerebrospinal fluid viral studies were initially non-diagnostic. Later in 2007, JCV was detected in 
the cerebrospinal fluid, assuring the diagnosis of PML. The MRI showed demyelinated foci. In Sep 2007, he 
received a five-day course of cytarabine for the treatment of PML. In Oct-Nov 2007, he developed refractory focal 
motor seizures and was treated with high-dose cytarabine, valproic acid, levetiracetam and clonazepam. In Dec 
2007, he received investigational natural killer cell therapy. In Feb 2008, he was treated with infusions of CD3/CD28
ex vivo carried out-stimulated autologous T-cells in an attempt to reverse his therapy-related immunodeficiency and
to enhance antiviral immunity. He also received intravenous immunoglobulin. In May and Jun 2008, he received 
investigational JCV peptidepulsed dendritic cell vaccinations with granulocyte-monocyte colony-stimulating factor 
(GM-CSF). Although neurologically stable at this point, he developed severe anemia with brisk hemolysis and 
symptomatic massive splenomegaly and underwent splenectomy in(b) (6)  Other treatment modalities for PML 
include mirtazapine and cyproheptadine, 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A (5HT2A) serotonin blockers. In Feb 2009, the 
patient underwent human leukocyte antigen-matched sibling allogeneic stem cell transplantion following a 
nonmyeloablative preparative regimen that included fludarabine, melphalan and total body irradiation (200 cGy). 
The donor of bone marrow was the patient's sister. Shortly after transplantation, the patient suffered from 
intercurrent sepsis caused by pseudomonas species then contracted viral pneumonia and, subsequently, 
gastrointestinal clostridial infection. About three months post-transplantation, following reduction of 
immunosuppression and a donor lymphocyte infusion, the patient developed gastrointestinal involvement by graft-
versus-host disease, confirmed by biopsy of large intestine by graft-versus-host disease later became manifest in 
the patient's skin. About five months post-transplantation, after an episode of enterococcal cystitis treated with 
AugmentinR, JCV disease progressed rapidly.  This decline happened two years after the first diagnosis of JCV 
infection. The patient developed tetraparesis, rapidly lost vigilance, and died from respiratory and septic 
complications due to aspiration pneumonia. In the macroscopic autopsy analysis of the brain, no pathological 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 319 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
changes were evident at first sight. The brain weighed 1,230 g, and had a smooth surface with normal meninges. 
The hemispheres were symmetric. Frontotemporally, 3x3x3 cm areas of necrosis were noted bilaterally. In the right 
thalamus, a macerated area of 0.6 cm that was clearly circumscribed and in the basal ganglia several focal 
necrosis (about 0.4 cm each) were noted. The medulla oblongata was rather pale, and also featured signs of 
necrosis. Histology showed: in the frontal cortex, the cytoarchitecture was widely normal, but within the white 
matter, focal gliosis encircling demyelinated areas was found. Demyelination was confirmed also by luxol fast blue-
periodic acid Schiff (LFBPAS) staining. In the demyelinated foci, many macrophages were seen. Oligodendroglial 
JCV enclosure was visible and immunohistochemical staining with JCV antibodies displayed positivity. In the 
parietal lobes, the areas of demyelination were predominantly found near the cortical surface. CD68-positive 
macrophages loaded with virus particles, commonly seen in PML, were detected in the patient.  Few lymphocytes 
and plasma cells were found. Most of the immune cells were CD68-positive macrophages and siderin-laden 
macrophages, which were found in the lesions and in perivascular areas. Most of the lymphocytes were CD3-
positive, and only a few displayed positivity for CD20. In the occipital lobe, prominent perivascular inflammation and
small areas of demyelination were observed. There were numerous viral inclusions in oligodendrocytes that were 
also immunohistochemically positive for the JCV antibody. The basal ganglia had been extensively destroyed by 
necrosis. Most of the necrotic areas were inactive and circumscribed by gliosis.  Some areas displayed distinct 
signs of active inflammation, especially in perivascular regions, where infiltration by CD68-positive macrophages 
and CD3-positive lymphocytes was evident. In the periphery of the demyelinated areas, there were many 
eosinophilic oligodendroglial inclusions which stained positively with the JCV antibody. There was diffuse 
lymphocytic infiltration of the white matter in the thalamus that was positive on LFB-PAS staining. In the pons, there 
were abundant JCV-positive inclusions, confirmed by immunohistochemistry. Furthermore, the cerebellar tissue 
displayed signs of demyeliation in the white matter, distinct gliosis and JCV inclusions. In summary, the autopsy 
findings of the brain demonstrated active JCV infection, with distinct demyelination corresponding to classic PML. It 
was noteworthy in this case that the cortical affection was located mainly in the frontoparietal cortex. Author 
concluded that certain diseases and medical therapies impairing cellular immunity could cause JCV reactivation 
and it was likely that both the CLL and the immunosuppression caused by the chemotherapy caused PML. 
Seriousness of the events viral pneumonia, pseudomonal sepsis, autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, intestinal 
infection due to clostridium difficile and JC virus infection were upgraded as per NVS-IME list while the events 
immunosuppression, enterococcal cystitis, concomitant disease progression, tetraparesis and rapidly lost vigilance 
(attention impaired), were upgraded as per the information available in the source document. 
Follow-up report (full text article) received on 08 Jan 2015: Information on reporter details, current condition details, 
event course details,lab details, macroscopic autopsy and histology analysis details were updated.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 320 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information