Case number# PHHY2015US001657, is an initial literature case report received on 07 Jan 2015. The author 
discussed about progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation 
(BMT) for acute myeloid leukemia (AML). This report refers to a 69-year-old male patient ((b) (6) ). The patient 
diagnosed with acute myelomonocytic leukemia with complex cytogenetics and an FLT3-ITD mutation. His disease 
failed to respond to initial induction therapy with idarubicin and high-dose cytarabine, and the patient instead 
received salvage therapy that included AC220 (quizartinib) and experienced a morphologic complete remission. He 
was subsequently treated with decitabine until undergoing a 10/10 HLA-matched unrelated donor allogeneic BMT. 
Donor and recipient were both cytomegalovirus negative. His conditioning regimen consisted of fludarabine, 40 
mg/m2 for 4 days and pharmacokinetic dose-adjusted busulfan targeting a daily area under the curve of 4000 
umol/min-1. Post-transplant, the patient received cyclophosphamide, 50 mg/kg on post-transplant day 3 and 4 and 
tacrolimus for immunosuppression (unknown manufacturer, formulation for both drugs). On post-transplant day 26, 
results of a bone marrow biopsy showed full donor chimerism and no evidence of AML. He then developed steroid-
refractory grade III acute skin and colon graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) on post-transplant day 55, which was 
initially treated with methylprednisolone, 2 mg/kg, and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) (unknown manufacturer, 
formulation for both drugs). Because of an inadequate response, MMF was discontinued and the patient received 1
cycle of pentostatin, 1.5 mg/m2 on days 1 through 3 (post-transplant day 63-65) with good response. On continued 
improvement of the patient's GVHD, tacrolimus and prednisone were completely tapered by post-transplant day 
140. On post-transplant day 315, the patient experienced new-onset expressive aphasia and right upper extremity 
dyspraxia. A brain MRI showed a 1.7 x 2.0-cm periventricular lesion in the left centrum semiovale involving the 
white matter with peripheral T2 enhancement. Results of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cellular, biochemical, and 
routine microbiology studies were within normal limits, but qualitative CSF PCR was positive for JCV, consistent 
with a diagnosis of PML, and serum PCR showed 1724 copies/mL of JCV DNA. The absolute CD4+ T-cell count 
was low at 178 cells/uL and the CD8+ T-cell count was 372 cells/uL. The patient was started on therapy with 
mefloquine, 250 mg/d for 3 days followed by 250 mg weekly, and mirtazapine, 30mg/d. He also received 1 dose of 
intravenous immunoglobulin at 0.5 g/kg. After day 25 of mefloquine and mirtazapine therapy, the patient showed 
continued rapid neurologic decline and therapy was discontinued. A donor lymphocyte infusion was considered to 
facilitate immune reconstitution, but because of the patient's severe irreversible and progressive neurologic 
damage, the decision was made to transition the patient to hospice care. He expired shortly afterwards on post-
transplant day 361. The author commented that PML was also becoming increasingly recognized as a serious 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 346 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
complication of allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Along with conventional immunosuppression with tacrolimus, 
the patient also received additional immunosuppression with post-transplant cyclophosphamide to mitigate 
alloreactive T-cell proliferation, and steroids, MMF, and pentostatin to treat the grade III acute skin and colon 
GVHD. Therefore, the use of a purine analogue (pentostatin) for the treatment of steroid-refractory GVHD might 
have contributed to the sustained depression of CD4+ T cells, even after all immunosuppression had been 
completely tapered off for almost 6 months. Although immunosuppression was an unavoidable risk in patients 
undergoing allogeneic BMT, the present cases highlight the potential fatal complications of the resultant impaired 
cellular immunity and T-cell lymphopenia that occurs with time.