This serious spontaneous report from a physician concerns a male patient in his 50s from the United States and 
was received on 05-JAN-2014.
The patients relevant medical history included chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
The patient received an unknown dose of IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib) at an unknown frequency for the treatment of 
CLL.  The first dose of ibrutinib was initiated on an unknown date in 2014, a few months prior to this report.  
Concomitant medications included Flonase (mometasone furoate) and Acyclovir (aciclovir).
On an unknown date after taking ibrutinib for a few months, the patient experienced cardiac arrest, for which he 
was hospitalized.  Treatment details were not reported.  The action taken with ibrutinib in response to the event was
unknown.  At the time of the report, the patient was in the intensive care unit (ICU), and the outcome of the cardiac 
arrest was unchanged.
Additional information has been requested.
Follow up information was received from the physician on 12-JAN-2015 with medical records received on 12-JAN-
2015. This report concerns a 59-year-old patient. Additional relevant medical history included chemotherapy 
induced chronic anemia, Lyme disease, enlarged lymph nodes, allergy to amoxicillin, the patient was a non-smoker,
had secondhand smoke exposure, consumed alcohol twice a week, did not use illicit drugs, exercised by playing 
basketball, and was reportedly healthy with no other medical diseases other than CLL. Historical medications 
included treatment with four cycles of fludarabine, then Rituxan (rituximab), and Cytoxan (cyclophosphamide). The 
patient had a negative medical history for cardiac disorder and did not received treatment with anthracyclines. The 
patient received ibrutinib for enlarged lymph nodes in addition to the previously reported CLL. The first dose of 
ibrutinib was initiated on an unknown date in AUG-2014 or SEP-2014. On an unknown date in 2014, after starting 
the first dose of ibrutinib, the patient experienced some mild joint pain. Treatment and event details were not 
reported. On (b) (6) , the patient was in his usual state of health, but complained of being tired; he consumed
an unknown amount of alcohol that evening. On (b) (6) , at approximately 0415 AM, the patients wife awoke 
next to him and found he had some loud and labored breathing. The patients wife was unable to awaken him and 
called emergency medical services (EMS). While EMS was in route for approximately five to fifteen minutes, the 
family performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). EMS diagnosed the patient with ventricular fibrillation, 
defibrillated the patient four times, gave unspecified amounts of epinephrine and lidocaine, and the patient was 
intubated. The patient was admitted to the hospital for cardiac arrest as evidenced by ventricular fibrillation, loud 
and labored breathing, and difficulty to awaken. Treatment with ibrutinib was withdrawn. Upon arrival to the hospital,
Print Time: 14-JAN-2016 01:47 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 6 of 13
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
the patient was taken to the catheterization (cath) lab. On (b) (6) , the patient had a cardiac catheterization 
performed, which showed essentially normal coronary arteries, depression of the left ventricular (LV) systolic 
function, an estimated ejection fraction (EF) of 40 to 50%, and mild left ventricular hypertrophy. Specifically, the 
patients left anterior descending (LAD) showed minor irregularities with mild proximal calcification, he had two small
diagonal branches, and the circumflex was moderate to small with two small marginal branches, which were 
normal. While in the cath lab, the patient had another episode of ventricular fibrillation and was defibrillated again. 
Following the heart cath, the patient was transported to the intensive care unit (ICU). The physical examination that 
followed revealed the patient opened his eyes, withdrew from his endotracheal (ET) tube, localized to sternal rub, 
and could move all extremities including bending his legs. The patient had diminished breath sounds anteriorly and 
a few crackles posteriorly. The cardiac rhythm was regular with no murmurs. Extremities were without clubbing, 
cyanosis, or edema. The patients blood pressure was 93/85, pulse was 72, oxygen saturations 99%, and 
respiratory rate in the 20s with ventilator setting of pressure regulated volume control (PRVC) of 12, tidal volume of 
400, positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) of 5, and fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) of 100%; reference 
ranges not reported. The patients white blood cell (WBC) count was 13.9, hematocrit was 41.6, platelet count was 
116, sodium was 141, chloride was 108, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) was 18, creatinine was 1.4, glucose was 267, 
and potassium was unknown; units and reference ranges were not reported. The patient had an arterial blood gas 
(ABG) with pH of 7.06, pCO2 of 67, pO2 of 117, and oxygen saturations of 98%; units and reference ranges were 
not reported. A chest x-ray was performed, which showed interval intubation, placement of nasogastric (NG) tube, 
and pulmonary edema present. Impressions at the time of admission included hypoxic respiratory failure with 
probable pulmonary edema in addition to post ventricular fibrillation arrest. The physician noted that the etiology of 
the cardiac arrest and arrhythmia/ventricular fibrillation were unclear. A venous Doppler study of the lower 
extremities was performed and was negative for deep venous thrombosis (DVT). The patient was sedated and 
remained on ventilator support. On (b) (6) , an echocardiogram showed left ventricular ejection fraction 
(LVEF) of 50 to 55%, no wall motion abnormalities, no evidence of intracardiac mass or thrombus, and the 
pericardium was normal with no pericardial effusion. The patient was extubated and placed on nasal cannula and 
initially exhibited transient confusion, which resolved and returned to his baseline of alert and oriented to person, 
place, and time (AOx3) with no deficits. The patient tolerated the nasal cannula well. On (b) (6) , venous 
Doppler study of the left upper extremity showed no evidence of DVT. On (b) (6) , the patient experienced 
another ventricular fibrillation arrest during a transfer from the bed to the stretcher as he was in route to have an 
automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (AICD) placed. The patient was re-intubated. Cardiology was 
following and the patient was treated with a continuous amiodarone drip. The physician recommended aggressive 
electrolyte replacement with high potassium (K) goal of 4.3 to 4.5 and magnesium goal of 2.2. (b) (6) , 
another chest x-ray confirmed the ET was in good position and revealed increased density in the right lung base 
that could have been due to infiltrates, atelectasis, or fluid in the major fissure. An endotracheal sputum culture was
positive for Staphylococcus aureus and sensitive to clindamycin. On an unknown date during the hospitalization, 
the patient began to have persistent daily evening fevers. The physician noted no leukocytosis and negative blood 
Print Time: 14-JAN-2016 01:47 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 7 of 13
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
cultures on unknown dates. On (b) (6) , the patient was extubated again to two liters per nasal cannula. The 
patient was receiving daily unspecified nebulizers and was tolerating nasal cannula well. The physician noted the 
patient had raspy voice and was aphonic from the multiple intubations; speech therapy evaluation was 
recommended. (b) (6) , the patient had a chest x-ray which showed persistent mid to lower lung 
consolidates, confirmed extubation, and had no other significant changes. Per the discharge summary, secondary 
diagnosis for the hospitalization included thrombocytopenia. On (b) (6) , the patient was started on 
clindamycin and was discharged via transfer to another hospital cardiology care unit per patient and family request. 
Treatment with ibrutinib was not restarted. The outcomes of the joint pain, tiredness, hypoxic respiratory failure with
probable pulmonary edema, Staphylococcus aureus sputum, fevers, thrombocytopenia, and aphonia were 
unknown at the time of reporting. The outcomes of the ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest and transient confusion 
were resolved. The reporter considered the causality between the ventricular fibrillation and ibrutinib as related. No 
further information is expected.
Follow-up information from a physician was received on 10-FEB-2015. Physician confirmed the patient was not a 
heavy drinker. Baseline potassium was reported as 4.0 (units and normal range not reported). The physician 
reported the patient's Lyme disease was not active at the time of the ventricular fibrillation. On (b) (6) , the 
patient's potassium was 3.8, on (b) (6) (b) (6) (b) (6) it was 3.7 and on  and  it was 4.0 (units 
and normal range not reported). The physician did not have plans to restart ibrutinib, so the patient was referred to 
another facility for further treatment. No further information was expected.