Information was received on 02-Jan-2015.   This is an unsponsored study, published case reported by an other 
health professional referring to a 32 years-old male patient who experienced cardiovascular (CV) accident and 
multifocal progressive leukoencephalopathy (MPL) during Prograf (tacrolimus) treatment.  The patient was enrolled 
in (b) (6)
Citations Included
 - Bilbao I, Dopazo C, Castells L, Lazaro J, Caralt M, Sapisochin G, et al. Immunosuppression based on everolimus
in liver transplant recipients with severe early post-transplantation neurotoxicity. Transplantation Proceedings. 2014;
vol. 46 (9); pp. 3104-7. 
No other suspect medications were reported. 
Current condition included HIV coinfection; Historical condition included hepatitis C virus (HCV) cirrhosis, renal 
insufficiency, and encephalopathy; and Procedure included liver transplant.
Concomitant medications included mycophenolate mofetil and corticosteroids. 
The patient received tacrolimus for liver transplant immunosuppression according to the following dosage 
regimens: 20-Dec-2006 - (stop date not provided): Unknown route 4 mg, once daily and (start date not provided) - 
24-Jan-2007: Unknown route, 10 mg, once daily.
On an unspecified date the patient developed cardiovascular (CV) accident and multifocal progressive 
leukoencephalopathy (MPL).
No lab test information was provided.
Unspecified date: Child-Pugh score: C(12) 
Tacrolimus treatment stop date was not provided.
The outcome of CV accident was reported as recovered / resolved w/seq and the outcome of MPL was reported as
recovering / resolving.
Patient died on (b) (6)  due to HCV recurrence, stenosis of biliary anastomoses and sepsis.
The other health professional assessed the following events with respect to Tacrolimus: 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 338 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
 - CV accident (seriousness: Hospitalization; causality: Possible)
 - MPL (seriousness: Hospitalization; causality: Possible)
Follow up received on 27-Feb-2015 and 02-Mar-2015. New or updated information included, suspect drug dose, 
start date and end date, event outcome and local ID was added.