Case number# PHEH2015US000705, is an initial report received from a consumer (patient) via patient oriented 
program ((b) (6)  on 06 Jan 2015, with a follow up report 
received from a physician together with Gilenya and breathlessness and ocular or visual disturbances checklist on 
09 Jan 2015. 
This report refers to a 44 year old non pregnant female patient. Medical history of the patient included smoking 
cigarettes intermittently, allergies, multiple sclerosis optic neuritis and obesity. Concomitant medication included 
Prozac (fluoxetine hydrochloride) oral at a dose of 20 mg per day for depression and Ritalin (methylphenidate 
hydrochloride) oral at a dose of 10 mg once daily. 
The patient received Gilenya (fingolimod) capsule for multiple sclerosis from an unknown date in Dec 2014 at a 
dose of 0.5 mg, QD (oral).
On an unknown date, the patient experienced acute bronchitis (bronchitis), hypoxia and also had vision abnormal/ 
vision issues (visual impairment). The physician stated that, the patient was admitted for acute hypoxic respiratory 
failure with significant cough, bronchospasm, bronchitis and definite pneumonia on (b) (6)  The patient 
needed prescription of antibiotics (details unspecified) and was treated with Solumedrol (methylprednisolone 
sodium succinate), Xopenex as cough medicine. On (b) (6)  and again (b) (6) , the patient had chest X-
ray (details not provided). The patient was treated with antibiotics (unspecified) and steroids (unspecified) and was 
hospitalized until (b) (6) . The patient also had blurred vision. On 06 Jan 2015, MRI brain showed no acute 
lesions. The patient was found to be positive for sinusitis. On 07 Jan 2015, CTPA (computed tomography of 
pulmonary angiography) was performed for which results were not reported. The physician was not sure what they 
would do with Gilenya. The patient had failed multiple medications (details unspecified) and JCV Ab positive (John 
Cunningham virus) was positive on an unknown date. The physician also reported that patient improved during 
hospitalization and complained of persistent shortness of breath (SOB), so CTPA was ordered by the physician. 
Appointment with ophthalmologist was scheduled due to blurred vision.
The patient also had other events heart rate irregular, dizziness, headache and cold (see case 
PHEH2014US025799). Action taken with Gilenya was unknown.
The outcome of the event bronchitis was reported as recovered with sequelae, for the events vision blurred, vision 
abnormal, JC virus test positive and shortness of breath was not reported and of other events was condition 
improving. Causality of the event bronchitis was reported as suspected and of other events was not reported.
Follow up report received from a physician together with Gilenya and breathlessness and ocular or visual 
disturbances checklist on 09 Jan 2015: Information related to pregnancy information (reported as no), patient 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 329 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
demographics, historical condition (smoker, optic neuritis, obesity and allergies), lab data (JC virus) suspect 
Gilenya start date, event verbatim (vision blurred, hypoxia), new events (respiratory failure, cough, bronchospasm, 
pneumonia, vision blurred, SOB and JC virus infection) was updated.