Smolle E, Trojan A, Schuster SJ, Haybaeck J. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy - A case report and 
review of the literature. In-Vivo 2014; 28(5) 941-948
A 63-year-old man developed JC polyomavirus (JCV) infection and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(PML) during treatment with fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab [ dosages not stated ]. The man was 
diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) in 1996. In 1999, he was treated with 5 cycles of fludarabine, 
followed by 3 cycles of fludarabine and rituximab [ routes not stated ]. Subsequently, his complete blood cell count 
normalised. However, in December 2001, he was treated again with 4 cycles of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and
rituximab [ routes not stated ] due to elevated WBC count, splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy. However, this 
treatment was complicated by autoimmune haemolytic anaemia. His CLL responded to therapy, but by January 
2006 he required therapy again and was treated with 3 cycles of oral fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab 
without response and then with 3 cycles of IV fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab, ending in July 2006 
and resulting in a nodular partial response. In 2007, CLL progressed and he was started on lenalidomide. 
Lenalidomide treatment was interrupted due to weakness of the right upper extremity leading to paralysis, which 
was attributed to PML based on clinical and MRI findings. In 2007, JCV was detected in his CSF, assuring the 
diagnosis of PML. The man was treated with cytarabine for PML. In October-November 2007, he developed 
refractory focal motor seizures and was treated with high-dose cytarabine, valproic acid, levetiracetam and 
clonazepam. He was then treated with investigational natural killer cell therapy, infusions of CD3/CD28 ex vivo 
carried out-stimulated autologous T-cells and IV Ig. He also received investigational JCV peptidepulsed dendritic 
cell vaccinations with GM-CSF. He was neurologically stable, but developed severe anaemia with brisk haemolysis 
and splenomegaly. He underwent splenectomy in (b) (6)  Other treatment drugs received for PML included 
mirtazapine and cyproheptadine, 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A serotonin blockers. In (b) (6)  he underwent 
human leukocyte antigen-matched sibling allogeneic stem cell transplantion following a non-myeloablative 
preparative regimen with fludarabine, melphalan and total body irradiation for his CLL. Shortly after transplantation, 
he suffered from intercurrent sepsis caused by Pseudomonas sp ., then viral pneumonia and, subsequently, GI 
clostridial infection. About 3 months post-transplantation, he developed GI involvement by graft-versus-host 
disease. About 5 months post-transplantation, after an episode of enterococcal cystitis treated with Augmentin, JCV
disease progressed rapidly. He developed tetraparesis, rapidly lost vigilance, and died from respiratory and septic 
complications due to aspiration pneumonia. Autopsy findings of the brain revealed active JCV infection, with distinct
demyelination corresponding to classic PML.