INVESTIGATOR SAE VERBATIM: PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY
CC-4047-MM-016 (FRANCE):  Imnovid Register to monitor effectiveness of risk minimisation and pregnancy 
prevention plans and to monitor acutal conditions of use.
Initial information was received on 19Dec2014 from an investigator conducting a(b) (6)
 regarding an elderly female patient ((b) (6) ), who initiated treatment with oral Imnovid
(Pomalidomide) (dose, frequency not provided) on an unspecified date in Jun2013 for the treatment of multiple 
myeloma diagnosed on an unspecified date. The most recent dose of Imnovid was provided as 3mg/day.
Relevant medical history and concomitant medications were not provided.
While in this protocol, on an unspecified date the patient developed Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(NCI CTC grade not provided). The investigator considered the event of serious medical importance. Corrective 
treatment for the event if any was not provided. Imnovid was permanently discontinued on 07Nov2014. The 
outcome for the event was not provided. 
The investigator assessed the causal relationship as follows:
PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY: Imnovid (Related).
The company assessed the causal relationship as follows:
PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY:  Imnovid (Possible) 
No further information was provided. Additional information will be requested.
This Case linked to 056-POMAL-14030339 (HYPERCALCAEMIA,ANAEMIA,RENAL FAILURE,BONE LESION).
Additional information was received on 16/Jan/2015 from a physician involved in this registry.
This 81 year old patient received Imnovid and dexamethasone as treatment for her 6th myeloma relapse. 
She was hospitalized for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and reported as life threatening. In(b) (6)  
sudden onset of isolated monoparesis of the right hand occurred. Brain scan and MRI were in favor of PML (reports
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 353 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
not provided). On (b) (6)  the LP (lumbar puncture) confirmed the diagnosis as a result of the presence of JC 
(John Cunningham) virus. 
Corrective treatment included Octagam. Neurological appointment on 10Dec2014 showed no neurological 
deterioration, no cognitive deficiency. The myeloma was stable, thus decision was taken to abstain therapeutically.
The reporter assessed the causal relationship as follows:
PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY: Imnovid (doubtful), dexamethasone (doubtful).
French method of imputability was provided as C1 S2 I1.
No further information was provided.
The Company assessed the causal relationship as follows:
PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY:  Imnovid (Possible), dexamethasone (possible).
Additional information will be requested.
Additional information was received on 20Feb2015 from the investigator as a follow up.
Underlying IgG multiple myeloma stage III was diagnosed on 22Aug2002.
Previous chemotherapy included Alkeran-Prednisone-Aredia from 2005 to Oct2006 with partial response; 
Thalidomide-Dexamethasone until Dec2007 with partial response; Revlimid-Dexamethasone for 6 cycles; Velcade-
Dexamethasone since 26Nov2009; Bendamustine since 10May2010; Velcade-Thalidomide-Dexamethasone since 
17Jun2010; Bendamustine since 15Apr2013.
Additional medical history included neuropathy in Dec2007, bronchitis in Jan2012, cementoplasty to T9, portacath 
infection, urinary infection complicated by Escherichia coli sepsis on (b) (6) , rhinopharyngitis, diverticulitis, 
cerebroplasty to T11-T12 and L1-L2 in 2011, osteoarthritis.
On (b) (6)  a neck and chest MRI showed thoracic cyphosis due to multiple vertebral collapse fractures (T4, 
T6 ,T8, T9, T11, T12, L1 and L2) which were old in appearance. At the cervical level, degenerative interbody 
vertebral disc signs at two levels, C5-C6, C6-C7 with minor postero-median overlapping of the discs at these levels;
heterogenous image in the vertebral body of T9 consistent with a past history of cementoplasty. On (b) (6) , a 
cerebral MRI showed that the 4th ventricle is in situ beneath the tentorium, no cerebral or brain stem abnormality, 
midline structures in place supratentorially, white matter hyperintensity with vascular appearance and left parietal 
subcortical hyperintensity, suggesting a probable multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PMLE). 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 354 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The patient was hospitalized on (b) (6)  to assesses a right C8 deficit and for the treatment of PMLE. A chest 
CT scan showed mixed diffuse, predominantly bilateral apical emphysema with slight diffuse reticular interstitial 
changes to the small area of poorly delineated ground glass appearance with an anterior lingular subpleural nodular
formation. Upper limb EMG showed nothing in particular. Lower limb EMG revealed sensory axonal neuropathy 
which may be caused by the chemotherapies. Her cervical spine MRI showed a normal cervico-occipital joint with a
thoracic cyphosis due to the multiple longstanding vertebral collapse fractures. These fractures were located at 
levels T4-T6, T8-T9-T11-T12, L1-L2; Her initial cerebral MRI showed a left parietal subcortical hyperintensity. A 
further MRI was performed which showed the central left frontal lesion in the subcortical U fibres appearing as a 
hyperintensity suggestive of probable multifocal PMLE. Kardegic was stopped for a lumbar puncture. The initial 
results of the lumbar puncture showed a gin clear acellular fluid with presence of JCV. On (b) (6)  the patient 
returned home.
On (b) (6)  the patient was seen on urgent basis. The patient was in fairly good general health and only limited 
by the right hand and monoparesis which restricted opposition of her thumb and index finger. She walked with a 
walking stick particularly because of pains in her knees (osteoarthritis, longstanding cartilage damage), for which a 
knee replacement is indicated but will not be performed.
Her blood profile was unremarkable in haematology (WBC 3700, Hb 12.9 g/dl; Platelets of 233,000; neutrophils 
1,700; normal renal and hepatic profile and normal calcium), hepatic and renal terms and her monoclonal band was
6 g which was disappointing for the patient but it is not really disturbing. Her current treatment was with Tavanic for 
bronchitis without fever, Celectol disease modifying treatment, Sterogyl drops, Cortancyl alternate days also to treat
the LMPE. The patient had her injection of Prevenar vaccine although not pneumo-23 or influenza, which the 
neurology department asked her not to have for unknown reasons. The right hand monoparesis was treated with 
monthly intravenous immunoglobulin at home (a PAC was inserted) and her symptoms had at least stopped and 
may have improved. The patient will not start any chemotherapy of any sort. Dedrogyl was discontinued as the 
patient was no longer taking corticosteroid therapy.
Further information will be requested.