Based upon follow up information received on 06-Jan-2015, this case was upgraded from non-serious to serious, 
due to addition of a serious event diagnosed with Progressive Multi-Focal Leuko Encephalophy (PML) and it was 
deadly, which was an important medical event.
The below narrative includes initial information reported by a consumer to a MS One to One nurse on 01-Apr-2013 
plus subsequent follow-up:
A 73-year-old female patient received oral teriflunomide coated tablet (Aubagio) (Lot # 2G95GSA, expiration date 
30-Sep-2014) 14 mg daily for multiple sclerosis since 30-Jan-2013. Patient experienced pain in the right upper 
quadrant of her abdomen.
The patient also mentioned that she took interferon beta-1A /01697201/ (Avonex) in the past for multiple sclerosis. 
In past patient experienced beastly headache and sciatic shocking pain down her left leg (nerve pain) both events 
was recovered. She stated that she had trouble sleeping when she took the teriflunomide at night but she switched 
to taking the teriflunomide in the morning and this problem was resolved. Patient also experienced an electrical 
current and pain from her head to fingers, and pain in her elbow, like hitting her funny bone repeatedly. The event 
was ongoing at the time of this report. The patient also had flu and was very weak. 
On an unspecified date (after an unknown latency), the patient developed hair thinning which included eyebrows as 
well. Outcome of events flu and very weak was unknown. No further relevant information reported. Upon follow up, 
patient reported that when she first started teriflunomide she had headaches (date and latency: Unknown). The 
patient changed the time she took teriflunomide from the morning to the evening, and the headaches resolved. 
Patient was still having the same hair loss that she experienced with teriflunomide when she first started the drug, 
including hair all over the body, which patient verbalized she was okay with. No other information was reported. 
Upon follow up, as of 06-Jan-2015, it was reported that, unspecified duration after and on an unknown date, the 
patient stated that, she was diagnosed with positive JC virus.   The patient although, did not believe that, it had 
anything to do with her taking teriflunomide. Of note is that the patient had been taking interferon interferon beta 1a 
for approximately 10 years.  At the time of discontinuing the interferon beta 1a and starting teriflunomide the patient 
underwent various lab studies and from these tests the patient was first informed of having antibodies to John 
Cunningham virus (JC virus) and of the potential implications of this finding including developing PML. The patient 
was not informed that she is exhibiting any PML-like findings. Her primary and most troublesome MS symptoms 
have been fatigue and paresthesias/dysesthesias (onset date and latency; unknown). The patient also gave 
consent for a Sanofi representative to contact physician if additional information is required.
Therapy for teriflunomide was maintained at the time of the report.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 374 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Action taken: no action taken.
Outcome:
Unknown for: was diagnosed with Progressive Multi-Focal Leuko Encephalophy (PML) and it was deadly, flu, very 
weak, fatigue and paresthesias/dysesthesias.
Resolved: sciatic shocking pain down her left leg (nerve pain), beastly headache.
Not resolved: pain in the right upper quadrant of her abdomen, an electrical current and pain from her head to 
fingers/pain in her elbow, like hitting her funny bone repeatedly, an electrical current and pain from her head to 
fingers and hair thinning/ hair loss including hair all over the body.
Seriousness criteria: The event was diagnosed with Progressive Multi-Focal Leuko Encephalophy (PML) and it's 
deadly was an important medical event.
Reporter's causality: not reported
Company causality: Associated
Additional information reported by a consumer to nurse in the MS One-to-One Program on 03-Oct-2013:
New event (an electrical current and pain from her head to fingers, pain in arm) added. Patient birth date, age 
updated. Product lot# and expiration date updated. Action taken with the drug changed to no action taken. 
Corresponding fields and narrative updated accordingly.
Additional information reported by a consumer to nurse in the MS One-to-One Program on 21-Nov-2013:
New events of flu and very weak were added.
Additional information reported by a consumer to nurse in the (b) (6)  on 05-Feb-2014, the event 
of hair thinning was added and the event verbatim for the event of sciatic shocking pain down her left leg was 
updated to sciatic shocking pain down her left leg (nerve pain). Start date for teriflunomide was added. Text 
amended accordingly.
Additional information reported by a consumer to nurse in the (b) (6)  on 13-Mar-2014:
- Event term verbatim of hair thinning was updated to hair thinning/ hair loss including hair all over the body and its 
outcome was updated from unknown to not recovered.
-Updated the outcome of the event beastly headache from unknown to recovered.
-Updated the reaction description and amended the text accordingly.
Additional information was received on 06-Jan-2015.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 375 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
-Case upgraded to serious.
-New event added: diagnosed with progressive multi-focal leuko encephalophy (PML) and it was deadly.
-Narrative amended, past drugs added, patient's age updated
Follow-up information was receive don 01-Apr-2015.
Verbatim for PML to JC virus positive, additional event of fatigue and paresthesias/dysesthesias added. Lab test 
added. Text was updated accordingly.