12-Jan-2015, Spontaneous Serious report (Local #CZE140120150124755).
A Physician reported the case of a Female patient who received Copaxone (GLATIRAMER ACETATE, Teva 
product), TYSABRI (Natalizumab, not Teva's product). 
The patient took Copaxone (GLATIRAMER ACETATE, Injection, Subcutaneous, from -Oct-2013, 20mg/ml per 
day), TYSABRI (Natalizumab, Injection, Intravenous (not otherwise specified), from -Sep-2012, until 03-Sep-2013, 
10Milligram per day).
While on the suspect medication, the patient experienced PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL 
LEUCOENCEPHALOPATHY(Serious ); DRUG INTOLERANCE(Serious ) . 
Initial report send on 12-Jan-2015 by Safety and Benefit Risk Management department of Bioged Idec, to Teva. 
Relapsing remitting MS was diagnosed in Jan 2007, characterized by paresthesia and weakness in left arm/hand 
and retrobulbar neuritis. In Jun 2007, the patient had an attack with paraparesis, DKK mild to medium. Disease 
modifying drug was started in Oct 2007 with Betaferon (interferon beta-1b). Therapy was switched to Copaxone 
(glatiramer acetate) in Jun 2012.  Therapy was switched to TYSABRI in Sep 2012, when was patient enrolled to 
(b) (6)  14 injections were administered and TYSABRI was discontinued on 
03-Sep-2013 and patient was switched back to Copaxone in October 2013.
The patient underwent MRI of the brain and cervical and thoracic spinal cord without complications (date not 
provided). Compared with the previous examination (Jul 2013) there were obvious demyelination plaques seen on 
previous examinations, but also detects new rather very small lesions more supratentorial on both sides. Blurry 
boundaries of the lesions simultaneously diffuse T2 and FLAIR changes also the central brain white matter, partially
gray matter (internal capsule), spared the basal ganglia, pronounced frontal and occipital. Accentuated by the 
affection of the medulla oblongata and pons (compared with examination of 01/13) bearing, but also printed 
character completely unique small lesions in the left hemisphere of the cerebellum and flyaway leukopatthy 
hypointense correlate with the edge IV. left brain chamber. Structural defects in the range captured the spinal cord -
the apparent narrowing of 5mm without evidence of external causes in plane C6, probably corresponding to its 
atrofization field myelopathy, this finding corresponds with the previous examination.  Multiple structural spinal cord 
captured virtually the entire range within demyelination craniocaudal climbs exceeding even the imaginary height of 
the individual vertebral bodies. After contrast administration polysubstituted ringed opacificate supratentorial 
lesions, as well as the one bearing the pons. Without evidence of disease activity in spinal range. Without any other
type of brain lesions. Chamber system of adequate width, without deviation and asymmetry. Comparable width 
corpus callosum and no evidence of cortical atrofizace when compared to the previous examination. Significant 
atrofizace to absence of the left eye lens. Res: multiple bearing and flowing disability supratentorial, infratentorial 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 360 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
and captured the extent of the cervical and thoracic spinal cord corresponding to the image changes within 
demyelination type MS. When compared to the two previous examinations is an evident increase mail focal lesions 
in all compartments, while newly obvious affection flowing gray and white matter brain supratentorial changes 
having the character typical of PML (according to the documentation when stopping TYSABRI in 2013), or can be 
assessed as progression of MS within the rebound phenomenon after discontinuation of natalizumab. Signs of 
activity polysubstituted focal lesions supratentorial.
On 30 Dec 2014, screening brain MRI was susceptibility for PML with no related clinical symptoms.  On (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  the patient was hospitalized to verify the diagnosis.  CSF analysis was performed on (b) (6)  (presume 
previously reported testing for JCV DNA) and results are not yet known.  The severity of the event of PML was 
assessed as severe.  Concomitant medication included Medrol (methylprednisolone).  The relationship of the event 
of PML to TYSABRI was considered related.
At the time of the report the outcome of the AEs were:   PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL 
LEUCOENCEPHALOPATHY : not recovered/not resolved,   DRUG INTOLERANCE : not recovered/not resolved.
Action taken with suspect drugs: Copaxone - Unknown; TYSABRI - Drug discontinued.
The patient had medical history of RELAPSING REMITTING MS(since -Jan-2007, Disease characterised by 
paresthesia and weakness in left arm/hand and retrobulbar neuritis, Continuing), SURGERY FOR 
STRABISM(since --1982, until --1982, Not Continuing), SURGERY FOR FIBROM OF RIGHT MAMMA(since -May-
2014, until -May-2014, Not Continuing), CATARACT OPERATION(Not Continuing).
The patient's concomitant medication included  Medrol(Methylprednisolone). 
The patient's past medication included Betaferon(Interferon beta-1;  Injection, Subcutaneous,  since -Oct-2007,
until -Jun-2012 ). 
Lab tests:
(b) (6)  MRI brain: susceptibility for PML Not Applicable
(b) (6)  csf analysis: Not yet known Unknown
Reporter's causality assessment: The causality of Copaxone for PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL 
LEUCOENCEPHALOPATHY, DRUG INTOLERANCE was Not reported.
The reporter assessed the causality between PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUCOENCEPHALOPATHY, DRUG 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 361 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
INTOLERANCE and TYSABRI as Possible. 
This case was considered serious based on the following criteria: (Life Threatening, Hospitalization Required)
Teva Comment:  GLATIRAMER ACETATE - intercurrent events. Causality; not related.
Because this is a spontaneous case, regulatory distribution will be handled as though it is a related case.
19-May-2015:
Additional information received from physician - author of the report.
He wrote that he reported it in frame of observational study (b) (6)
Results of cerebrospinal fluid analysis are already available - it is negative for presence of JCV DNA.
Test result of CSF analysis changed to JCV DNA negative in Lab test.
Teva comment: no change in causality assessment.