Upon internal review on 23-Jan-2015, the roll-up was performed and the company causality was updated from not 
associated to associated.
Based on additional information received on 14-Jul-2014, the case was upgraded to serious due to hospitalization 
for MS exacerbation.
Initial information regarding solicited case reported by a consumer to a nurse in the MS One-to-One Program on 
10-Oct-2013.
This case involves a 31 year old female patient (patient ID: (b) (6) ) who experienced vomiting aggravated, 
decreased appetite, nausea, lost a significant amount of weight, MS exacebation/flare-ups/relapses, patient was 
not able to function very well, vision problems/not seeing well, injury, warts got infected, 3 big warts burned off, 6 
little warts, acne - her skin is breaking up/pimples impacted by infection, heart rate was elevated, had chest pain, 
had flu 2-3 time, her BP was elevated, infection/bacterial infection, mental distress, JC virus infection, feeling unwell
(latency: 6 months), migraine, muscle spasms in right arm and hand extending down into her thumb and ring finger,
tooth became infected (latency: 17 months) and teriflunomide (Aubagio) was not working as well (drug ineffective), 
white blood cell count that was off, blood culture readings during hospitalization had different readings with some 
being fine and others being off/irregular blood work cultures, dental problems, face swelled up like a golfball to her 
eye and ear (latency: 17 months), not walking well, could not hear, falls an unknown duration after starting 
teriflunomide (Aubagio) and  missed about 5 doses (drug dose omission).
Past drugs: glatiramer acetate (Copaxone) and natalizumab (Tysabri) for multiple sclerosis.
On 19-Aug-2013, the patient commenced treatment with oral teriflunomide coated tablet at a dose of 14 mg daily 
(batch/lot number and expiry date: unknown) for multiple sclerosis.
In 2014, after unspecified latency, the patient experienced severe nausea and vomiting which has gotten worse; 
also she experienced decreased appetite and she lost a significant amount of weight. Patient was treated with 
ondansetron hydrochloride (Zofran) for vomiting and nausea. On an unknown date, patient was in the hospital for 
about a week. She had been sick for the past 6 month off and on. She had flu 2-3 times which then progressed and
never got better. When she got admitted she was not able to function very well. She was that different of a person.
She had no issues with vision and her big thing was when she started to have vision problems/not seeing well. She 
also felt strongly that she had a relapse. MRI was completed, which showed no lesions, just new changes. The 
neurologist had referred her to the PCP for blood work. Her white blood cells were off meaning some sort of 
infection. At the hospital, the blood work showed that WBC was fine but the results were different every day. She 
was admitted for 5-6 days and received methylprednisolone sodium succinate (Solumedrol). Her every little cut 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 418 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
little/paper cuts in 2015 and warts got infected, 3 big warts burned off, 6 little warts. The diagnosis was MS 
exacerbation. She also reported that she was feeling better as far as her MS went. She took minocycline (for last 6 
month) for acne 2015, her skin was breaking up and took her last tablet  3 days ago and she also used astringent 
and cream. When she actually got sick, she was given cefalexin monohydrate (Keflex) with refills on in. She 
reported that that while she was in the hospital, they really messed her medication cycle - the minocycline. She 
came out of the hospital with being off it for 6 days and resumed minocycline when she was released  and finished 
the last 4 tablets, she has since ran out of minocycline. She was released from the hospital 2 weeks ago. She 
stated that it was not just physical but was mental (mental distress) and suffered infection/bacterial infection. It was 
reported that she missed about 5 missed (drug dose omission) and felt that she had a relapse. Doxycycline was 
given for infection as a corrective treatment. On an unknown date, the patient re-initiated the treatment. When 
patient got out of the hospital, she stated that skin, chest and face were gross out and nasty and so broke out. She 
resumed minocycline and it cleared it right up. Patient reported that teriflunomide (Aubagio) not working as well 
(date and latency: unknown).  She also reported experiencing relapse last spring into summer and was hospitalized
for approximately one week. She walked into the hospital with can and had chest pain. Reportedly she has had new
symptoms last month of muscle spasms in right arm and hand extending down into thumb and ring finger. She was 
in pain management and would start physical therapy soon. She was not feeling well and out of it. She has had 
migraines (date and latency: unknown) and cluster headaches with spots in right eye, and vision would go for 
approximately 30 minutes. She reported that she has appointment with HCP on 23-Jan-2014 and plans to discuss 
going on Tecfidera. She was on natalizumab (Tysabri) and around 6 months into it. According to people her 
personality was different. She was also positive for J C Virus (date and latency: unknown).  Reportedly she had 
horrible reaction to glatiramer acetate (Copaxone) right after each injection about 13 months into it. She reported 3 
episodes of stopped breathing with 1st two times she was alone. She reported, "Well, it was right before stopping 
breathing"   and she was glad someone saw the last episode. She was diagnosed in 2010 and in the fall of 2010 
was driving leg spasmed. Reportedly she did not drive for a while, then when drove again, went off side of road and
could not stop. The next time when she drove, left leg spasmed and she pulled over to side of road and called 
husband.  She also reported felt leg jumping but drove home. She was stressing about teriflunomide (Aubagio) and 
switching to a new medication and what it would do. Reportedly, the last time the patient was getting close to 
running out of medication, she had been in the hospital. Upon follow up the patient reported that she had dental 
treatment just before Christmas on top left tooth because it became sensitive and infected (Jan-2015, 17 months). 
Patient stated she had been on antibiotics for infection in her mouth due to tooth infection. Antibiotics were not 
working so she went to emergency room (b) (6) . She received benzyl penicillin(PCN) injection and was put 
on double antibiotics to decrease swelling so tooth can be extracted on Monday. Patient was instructed to 
discontinue teriflunomide on 07-Feb-2015 and will be going on Tecfidera. It was reported that the patient not feeling
well while on teriflunomide after 6 months of therapy (therapy dates not provided). She was experiencing many 
flare-ups and relapses and her symptoms going from "nasty" to "absurd." She was being hospitalized for a week in 
(b) (6)  due a while blood cell count that was off. Blood culture readings during hospitalization had different 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 419 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
readings with some being fine and others being off/irregular blood work cultures. She was having the flu multiple 
times and dental problems during the winter of 2014. After having the back tooth filled 50%, the patient experienced
a bad infection that started with sensitivity on the left side of her mouth. The sensitivity localized to the tooth that 
had been filled and turned into complete pain and swelling. The patient's face swelled up like a golfball to her eye 
and ear, the point of no longer being able to hear. As a result, the patient would have an emergency extraction of 
the tooth that was being filled. The patient was instructed to stop teriflunomide to get her white blood cell count 
back up. The patient advised this infection impacted her overall, reporting pimples and paper cuts as examples. 
Her MS symptoms stayed the same during this infection. Since stopping the teriflunomide and having emergency 
extraction of tooth, her last bout of flu was gone in much shorter. Her daughter had warts and that she was not sure
who transmitted them to whom.
Action taken: Unknown
Outcome: recovering for MS relapse, unknown for face swelled up like a golfball to her eye and blood culture 
readings during hospitalization had different readings with some being fine and others being off/irregular blood work
cultures, white blood cell count that was off, tooth became infected, JC virus infection, feeling unwell, migraine, 
muscle spasms in right arm and hand extending down into her thumb and ring finger, vomiting aggravated, nausea,
lost a significant amount of weight, decreased appetite, patient was not able to function very well, vision 
problems/not seeing well, injury, warts got infected, 3 big warts burned off, 6 little warts, heart rate was elevated, 
had chest pain, had flu 2-3 times, her BP was elevated, mental distress, infection/bacterial infection and recovered 
for acne - her skin is breaking up/pimples impacted by infection.
Reporter causality: Not reported
Company causality: Not Associated for MS exacerbation. Associated for all the other events
Seriousness criteria: hospitalization for MS exacerbation, white blood cell count that was off, blood test abnormal 
and medically significant for JC virus infection
Additional information was received on 14-Jul-2014:
The case was upgraded to serious due to hospitalization for MS exacerbation.
Events were added: MS exacerbation, patient was not able to function very well, vision problems, injury, warts got 
infected, acne - her skin was breaking up, heart rate was elevated, had chest pain, had flu 2-3 times and her BP 
was elevated
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 420 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Lab test were added.
Corrective treatment was added.
Therapy start date was updated from unknown to 19-Aug-2013 and frequency was updated to daily.
Additional information was received on 14-Jul-2014:
Dosing info updated. Events: drug dose omission, infection/bacterial infection and it was not just physical but 
mental were added. Outcome of event broken skin updated. Narrative amended accordingly.
Additional information was received on 14-Jan-2015 from the patient via MS One to One program:
-Events were added: JC virus infection, feeling unwell, migraine and teriflunomide (Aubagio) was not working as 
well (drug ineffective) and muscle spasms in right arm and hand extending down into her thumb and ring finger
-Lab test was added: JC virus
-Past drugs were added: glatiramer acetate (Copaxone) and natalizumab (Tysabri)
-Medical history was updated: stop breathing and leg spasm
-Narrative was amended.
Upon internal review on 23-Jan-2015, the roll-up was performed and the company causality was updated from not 
associated to associated.
Additional information was received on 07-Feb-2015 from the patient via (b) (6)
Therapy end date was added: 07-Feb-2015, added events: tooth became infected. Narrative was amended as per 
the information received.
Additional information was received on 27-Mar-2015 from the patient via (b) (6)
Updated onset of nausea, vomiting, tooth infection, acne, injury, events added-WBC count abnormal, blood test 
abnormal, dental disorder, swelling of face.
Events have been added- difficulty in walking, hearing impaired, fall and verbatim updated for MS relapse, blood 
test abnormal, vision problems, warts and acne.