A neurologist reported that a  43 year old female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for relapsing remitting 
Multiple Sclerosis since unknown date was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to an unknown date for suspected PML 
(onset Aug 2014). The patient presented with periodic episodes of numbness in the right body site since Aug 2014. 
At the time of reporting the patient had paresis in the left hand. On (b) (6) , (b) (6)  and (b) (6) ,
MRI scans showed progressive lesions without contrast enhancing affecting U fibres and brain stem. The patient 
tested PCR negative on several unknown dates and the laboratory names were not provided. No treatment was 
reported. No concomitant medication was provided. The event of suspected PML is ongoing. The causality for the 
event of suspected PML was assessed as possibly related.  TYSABRI therapy continues.
Update 12 Dec 2014: The neurologist from the university hospital reported via a medical science liaison that the 43 
year old female patient had been receiving TYSABRI for four years. She tested positive for anti-JCV antibodies on 
an unknown date. Previous treatment of MS included azathioprine (dose and dates unknown). The patient 
presented with sensory disturbances considered MS relapse (onset unknown) three months prior to this report. 
Brain MRI on an unknown date revealed new lesions without contrast enhancement (previously reported).  As the 
clinical course progressed the patient developed hand paresis and progression of the lesions was seen in MRI 
(previously reported). JCV DNA PCR returned negative repeatedly. The outcome and causality of the MS Relapse 
was not reported. No additional information was reported.
Update 15 Dec 2014: The neurologist from the university hospital reported that TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) was 
administered continuously from Oct 2010 to Dec 2014. The last TYSABRI infusion was administered at the 
beginning of Dec 2014. The patient presented at the university hospital for the first time on(b) (6)
complaining about sensory disturbances affecting the right side of the body (previously reported as numbness in 
the right body). Brain MRI performed on (b) (6)  revealed no new lesions. The symptoms were considered 
reactivation of MS. No treatment was given. Subsequently, a control brain MRI was done in (b)  or (b) (6)(6) , exact 
month not provided, and no contrast enhancing lesions were seen. On (b) (6)  lumbar puncture was 
performed and CSF was tested at the local lab of the university hospital. The JCV DNA PCR in CSF was negative. 
At the beginning of (b) (6)  the patient presented new symptoms of impaired fine motor skills on the left side. 
Recent brain MRI showed affection of the U-fibres and PML was suspected. Second lumbar puncture was done on 
(b) (6)  and CSF samples were sent to the laboratory of the University of Duesseldorf with results still 
pending. The patient underwent plasmapheresis with the number of cycles and dates not reported.  No additional 
information was reported. 
Update 09 Jan 2015: The neurologist from the university hospital spontaneously provided the following additional 
information. Medical history included MS since 1999 previously treated with Azathioprine for one year, Rebif 
(interferon beta-1a) for three years and Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) for seven years. The patient started on 
TYSABRI in Oct 2010 following discontinuation of Copaxone. The patient tested positive for anti-JCV antibodies 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 397 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
shortly after starting TYSABRI.  The patient was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to(b) (6)  (dates discrepant 
from initial report) and from (b) (6)  to(b) (6)  at the neurological department of the university hospital. 
At the time of this report the patient remained hospitalized as of (b) (6)   The neurologist mentioned that the 
MRI findings were not typical for PML. There was no contrast enhancement seen in MRI images. There were 
extended T2 hyperintense lesions seen in brainstem and insula on the left side. Lumbar punctures were performed 
three times in total. The first CSF sample tested negative for JCV DNA by means of PCR at the local laboratory of 
the university hospital. The second CSF sample was sent to the laboratory of the university and the JCV DNA PCR 
test returned slightly positive. The neurologist mentioned that no number of copies/ml was available because it was 
below the limit of quantification. The third CSF sample was tested again in the local laboratory and returned slightly 
positive (without indication of number of copies/ml). The patient was diagnosed with PML and received five cycles 
of PLEX (dates unknown). Recently, the patient presented increasing of hemiparesis (onset unknown); no other 
neurological deficits were mentioned. Further treatment comprised IVIG for five days (total dose of 2g/kg BW), 
Remergil (Mirtazapine) and Lariam (Mefloquine).  The outcome and causality of hemiparesis was not reported. No 
additional information was reported.
Update 19 Jan 2015: The neurologist reported via the MSL that the patient currently was in a rehabilitation facility. 
No other information was provided.
Update 29 Jan 2015: The neurologist reported that the third lumbar puncture was performed on (b) (6)
(returned slightly positive from the local laboratory of the university hospital). He stated that the patient did not give 
her consent to share MRI data with the company. The neurologist provided cranial MRI findings from 16 May 2014, 
24 Jul 2014, 21 Aug 2014, (b) (6) (b) (6) (b) (6) ,(b) (6)  and (b) (6)   Cranial MRI 
with contrast medium from 16 May 2014 was performed due to the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis and dysarthria 
since 2010, with the current question of signs of PML and contrast enhancing lesions.  The current MRI was 
compared with the previous examination from 14 Oct 2013, and showed a constant lesion load of multiple lesions in
the white matter in the paraventricular [periventricular] regions on both sides. In the FLAIR and T2 weighted images
extended signal enhancement in the periventricular regions were seen. Lesions in the corpus callosum remained 
unchanged. After administration of contrast medium a round hyperintensity in the right medulla oblongata was 
evidenced, without correlate in the sagittal T1 weighted sequences after contrast medium and in the FLAIR and T2 
weighted images. Most probably this was a matter of an artifact. In the FLAIR weighted images signal 
enhancement in the left dorsolateral medulla oblongata was evidenced. The lesions in the cervical part of the spinal
cord were unchanged. The evaluation showed MS with constant lesion load. Currently no blood brain barrier 
disturbance. No signs of PML. Cranial MRI with contrast medium from 24 Jul 2014 was performed due to known 
multiple sclerosis and JCV positive serology during therapy with TYSABRI. Currently no relapse. The MRI was 
performed in the context of a clinical study. The current MRI was compared with the previous examination from 16 
May 2014. The current MRI showed in the FLAIR weighted sequences MS typical lesions reaching from the right 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 398 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
subcortical region to the cortex of the insula in the area of the external capsule which were more prominently 
displayed in comparison to the previous MRI. No proof of newly occurred lesions. No evidence of PML typical 
lesions in the white matter. The evaluation showed more prominently displayed MS typical lesions in the right 
subcortical region as described above. Otherwise, no new lesions. No evidence of PML. Cranial MRI with contrast 
medium from 21 Aug 2014 was performed due to the known multiple sclerosis and suspicion of a new MS relapse 
with the current question of new lesions in the brain stem and possible PML. The current MRI was compared with 
the previous examinations (the latest one from 24 Jul 2014), and showed that the known MS typical lesions were 
displayed more prominently because of the currently higher resolution of the sequences. When compared with the 
previous examinations, new lesions in the T2 weighted and FLAIR weighted sequences could not be evidenced. 
Known intense lesion load periventricular around the posterior horns of the lateral ventricles were seen. Further 
lesions were displayed amongst others in the left pontine region as well as centrally in the midbrain; the current 
diameter of the mesencephalon lesion was 4x4x4mm. No proof of lesions relating to diffusion disturbance or BBB 
disturbance. No PML typical lesions of the white matter. The internal and external cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 
ventricles continued to be normally wide. Evaluation: no definite proof of newly occurred cerebral MS typical lesions.
No proof of lesions with BBB disturbance. No evidence of PML. Cranial MRI with contrast medium from 03 Nov 
2014 was performed due to the diagnosis of known relapsing partly remitting multiple sclerosis first diagnosed in 
1999. Follow-up MRI while on TYSABRI therapy. The current MRI was compared with the previous examinations 
(the latest one from 21 Aug 2014). The comparability was slightly limited because of different methods of 
examination; the previous imaging was done with 3 Tesla, the current with 1.5 Tesla. The current MRI showed the 
known significant MS typical lesion load in the periventricular region, especially around the posterior horns of the 
lateral ventricles. Single lesions, e.g. in the area of the right insular region or in the left cortico-spinal tract appeared 
to be progressive in size. The lesions in the area of mesencephalon as well as in the left-sided pons were displayed
largely unchanged. Lesions with diffusion disturbance or BBB disturbance could not be proven. No definite 
evidence of PML. The internal and external cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) ventricles were normally wide. The evaluation 
showed no proof of newly occurred cerebral MS typical lesions. No definite evidence of PML. Cranial MRI with 
contrast medium from (b) (6)  was performed due to multiple sclerosis with clinically progressive relapse 
since (b) (6)  Lastly in (b) (6)  multiple new lesions were seen. Newly occurred paresis of the left hand since 1
week. Current question of new lesions, of progression, of PML. TYSABRI therapy for 4 years and positive JCV titer.
The current MRI was compared with the previous examinations (the latest one from (b) (6) ), and 
continuously did not show proof of lesions with diffusion disturbance or BBB disturbance or perfusion disturbance. 
The extended subcortical lesion in the right insula was progressive in size. The lesions in the right sided pre-central 
gyrus appeared to be slightly more prominent as compared to the previous MRI from (b) (6)  probably due to 
technical reasons. No clear proof of newly occurred MS typical lesions according to the T2 weighted sequences. 
The internal and external cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) ventricles were continuously of normal width. The evaluation 
showed progression in size of the extended subcortical lesion in the right insula. No clear proof of newly occurred 
MS typical lesions. Continuously, no proof of lesions with BBB disturbance. No evidence of PML. Cranial MRI with 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 399 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
contrast medium from (b) (6)  was performed due to the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis and strong suspicion 
of PML. Currently the patient was treated with plasmapheresis after discontinuation of TYSABRI. Follow-up MRI. 
The current MRI was compared with the previous examinations the latest from (b) (6) , and did not show a 
decisive change of the findings. Constant findings of the preexisting, extended confluating T2-/FLAIR 
hyperintensities subcortically in the right pre-central gyrus as well as in the adjacent right pre- and post-central white
matter. The known hyperintense T2-/FLAIR weighted lesions in the periventricular, juxtacortical and brainstem 
regions on both sides were constant in size. No proof of newly occurred lesions. No diffusion disturbance or BBB 
disturbance. No midline shift. The evaluation showed in the short-term follow-up no decisive change of the findings 
and consistency in the findings of the extended confluating T2-/FLAIR weighted subcortical lesions in the right pre 
central gyrus as well as in the adjacent white matter. From the MR morphology, an atypically extended MS 
manifestation as well as a PML came into consideration.  Cranial MRI with contrast medium from (b) (6)  was 
performed due to clinical deterioration with current question of PML and contrast enhancing lesions. The current 
MRI was compared with the previous examinations the latest from (b) (6) , and showed in the short-term, but 
especially in the long-term follow-up that the extended confluating T2-/FLAIR weighted hyperintensities in the peri-
insular region and subcortical region of the right pre central gyrus as well as in the adjacent right pre- and post-
central white matter had discretely increased. The known hyperintense T2-/FLAIR weighted lesions in the 
periventricular, juxtacortical and brainstem regions on both sides continued to be constant in size. No proof of newly
occurred lesions. No diffusion disturbance or BBB disturbance. The width of the ventricles was unchanged. No 
midline shift. The evaluation showed in the short-term, but especially in the long-term follow-up the contrast 
medium non-enhancing extended confluating T2 weighted hyperintensities in the peri-insular region and subcortical
region in the right pre-central gyrus as well as in the adjacent white matter had discretely increased. From the MR 
morphology, still an atypical extended MS manifestation as well as a PML came into consideration. Cranial MRI 
with contrast medium from (b) (6)  was performed due to PML with massive continuous clinical deterioration 
after therapy with TYSABRI due to MS. Current question of contrast enhancement and progression. The current 
MRI was compared with the previous examinations the latest from (b) (6)  and showed that the extended 
confluating T2-/FLAIR weighted hyperintensities in the peri-insular region and in the pre- and post-central white 
matter which were more pronounced on the right side had increased. The findings were displayed as hypointense 
lesions in the T1 weighted sequences; in the diffusion imaging signal enhancements in the border area were seen. 
There were still T1 and FLAIR weighted hyperintensities in the brainstem. A contrast medium enhancement could 
continuously not be demarcated. No decisive change of findings in regard to the punctiform mainly in the right 
parietal region located hyperintensities. Moreover, the internal and external cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) ventricles 
were of unchanged width. No midline shift. The evaluation showed in the short-term follow-up further increase in 
the previously described extended T2 and FLAIR weighted hyperintense lesions in the pre and post central white 
matter which were more pronounced on the right side. From their MR morphology these lesions corresponded most
likely to progressive changes in the scope of a PML.  No additional information was reported. 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 400 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 03 Feb 2015: The neurologist noted in the  indication line  on MRI reports there were some notices about 
clinical deterioration due to suspected PML in this patient in(b) (6)  - (b) (6)  No information about the 
planned re-testing of CSF was given. No additional information was reported. 
Update 05 Feb 2015: Upon internal review this case is considered to be confirmed for PML based on positive CSF, 
consistent radiological findings, and clinical symptoms.
Update 11 Feb 2015: A report received from the German regulatory authority Paul-Ehrlich Institute, (registry # 
2014083486), indicates that a medical doctor reported that a 43-year-old female patient on TYSABRI for Multiple 
Sclerosis (MS) experienced PML (onset Aug 2014). No new information was provided.
Update 09 Apr 2015: Additional information was received from a neurologist via a Standardized MS PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient was diagnosed with IRIS, which was determined by clinical symptoms and MRI 
findings. IRIS symptoms included depression (cognitive/behavioral), tetraparesis (motor: multifocal), dysarthria 
(speech), ataxia (cerebellar), convulsive epileptic state (seizure: multifocal), and severe dysphagia. Onset dates 
were not specified. The patient did not receive corticosteroids pre-IRIS onset and received unspecified 
corticosteroids after onset of IRIS. On an unspecified date prior to TYSABRI, the patient's estimated Karnofsky and 
EDSS scores were 90 (able to carry on normal activity; minor signs or symptoms of disease) and 2.0, respectively. 
On an unspecified date, while on TYSABRI and prior to PML diagnosis, the patient's estimated Karnofsky and 
EDSS scores were 90 and 2.0. At the time of PML diagnosis (date unspecified), the patient's estimated Karnofsky 
and EDSS scores were 70 (cares for self, unable to carry on normal activity or to do active work) and 3.0. The 
patient's current estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores are 30 (severely disabled; hospital admission is indicated 
although death not imminent) and 9.5 (date unspecified). 
Cranial MRI results were reported as follows: (b) (6)  = ADC-restriction of the cortex of the right hemisphere 
and the right thalamus compatible with status epilepticus. A correlation with EEG was recommended. An ischemic 
origin of the diffusion restriction could not be found by imaging (in CTA and MRA (magnet resonance 
angiography)). Slight progression in size of the signal enhancements in the supratentorial white matter was seen. 
Also the mesencephalic signal enhancement was slightly progressive and evidenced a new circumscribed brain 
barrier disturbance. Questionable diffuse enhancement was also seen in the area of the right sided hyper intensities
of the white matter. In summary (status epilepticus and new brain barrier disturbance) the findings were compatible 
with PML-IRIS. 11 Feb 2015 = the PML lesions in the right central region and in the insular lobe and in the pontine/ 
mesencephalic region, respectively, were constantly displayed. Increasing IRIS was seen in the pontine and 
mesencephalic regions as well as in the insular lobe and particularly in the pre-central region near the parasagittal 
cortical zone with signs of still active PML. One single new IRIS lesion left between the frontal inferior gyrus and the
lateral pre-central gyrus was displayed. MS lesions were constant. More intense T2-signal of the PML lesions was 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 401 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
seen, possibly more likely caused by oedema due to increasing IRIS. 16 Mar 2015 = distinct increase in the 
extensive lesions in the FLAIR/T2 weighted images as described above, continuously concomitant increase of the 
corresponding fine spotted brain barrier disturbances. Concerning differential diagnosis primarily an increasing IRIS
was considered, it could not be differentiated to what extent an increase of the PML was present. Furthermore 
newly occurred and increasing, respectively, lesions associated with brain barrier disturbance outside of the 
extensive T2 weighted changes, e.g. at the left frontal region, partly with open ring sign were seen, which were 
suspicious of increasing inflammatory lesions in the scope of the MS. No additional lumbar punctures have been 
performed.
As of 09 Apr 2015, the patient was alive and was living in a rehabilitation facility. She has not recovered from PML 
and has not recovered from IRIS. Causality of the events of PML and IRIS was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 29 Jun 2015:  In response to a request for follow-up information, the neurologist reported the patient was 
alive and currently at an inpatient rehabilitation facility. The neurologist has had no contact with the patient since the
last follow-up which was received on 09 Apr 2015, nor was there an appointment scheduled at the hospital 
outpatient department. No further information provided.