Based on additional information received on 17-Jul-2015, the company causality was updated to not associated 
from associated.
Based on additional information received on 14-Jan-2015 from the patient's wife via (b) (6)  the case was 
upgraded to serious from non-serious as the event of hasd difficulty walking/walks with feet pointed out/walks with a
limp was added which was assessed as important medical event.
Initial information regarding this serious solicited case from United States was received on 06-Oct-2014 from the 
patient's spouse via (b) (6)
This case concerns a 50-year-old male patient (Patient ID:(b) (6) ) who developed problems with his leg 
movements, had flu and tested positive for the JC virus, had difficulty walking/walks with feet pointed out/walked 
with a limp/ could walk some only when he had something to hold on to such as a walker, impaired his balance and 
feet felt tingly unspecified time after commencing therapy with teriflunomide (Aubagio).
Family history: Colon CA and colonoscopies. The patient had a medical history of bloody diarrhea while taking 
dimethyl fumarate. Past drugs: Mitoxantrone hydrochloride (Novantrone), dimethyl fumarate (Tecfidera) and 
natalizumab (Tysabri).
On 09-Aug-2014, the patient commenced treatment with oral teriflunomide at a dose of 14 mg daily (form, lot/batch 
number and expiry date: unknown) for multiple sclerosis.
It was stated that the patient's condition had not gotten worse but was about the same since starting on 
teriflunomide. The patient used the walls to hold on to when walking and also used a walker. It was also stated that 
he had problems with his leg movements (leg discomfort) since an unknown date.
The patient recently saw his neurologist and was started on a medication to improve his appetite. He had dropped 
to 114 pounds from 117 over a few months' time. He did have a good appetite. On an unknown date, after an 
unspecified latency with teriflunomide, he got a flu shot although he did not like needles. His HCP really wanted him
to have it. On an unknown date in 2014, unspecified duration after starting therapy with teriflunomide, the patient 
tested positive for the JC virus. He could not take dimethyl fumarate. It causes him to have bad side effects. On an 
unspecified date, the patient had difficulty walking and walked with a limp and use of a walker or wheelchair. On an 
unspecified date, the patient walked with feet pointed out, which impaired his balance. The patient had no issues 
with teriflunomide. 
Upon follow-up, patient's spouse stated that the patient could walk some only when he had something to hold on to 
such as a walker (corrective treatment). Patients spouse also reported that the patient also took seizure 
medications phenytoin (Dilantin) and valproate semisodium (Depakote) as concomitant medications. Patients 
spouse stated that the patient's feet felt tingly at times (onset: unknown; latency: unknown). Patient was JC virus 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 392 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
positive.
Therapy with teriflunomide was maintained.
Action taken: Unknown
Event outcome: Unknown for all events
Reporter Causality: Not associated for the event of has difficulty walking/walks with feet pointed out/walks with a 
limp and impairs his balance
Not reported for all other events
Company Causality: Associated for all except difficulty walking, tested positive for the JC virus and feet feel tingly 
(not associated) 
Seriousness criteria: Important medical event for the event of has difficulty walking/walks with feet pointed 
out/walks with a limp.
Additional information received from the consumer via MS One to One program on 25-Nov-2014:
-Added patient details (weight: 51.7 Kg).
-Updated therapy details of past drugs: mitoxantrone hydrochloride, dimethyl fumarate and natalizumab (start and 
stop date was added as 01-Jan-2001 for all the drugs).
-Added a new event, flu.
-Added outcome of event flu as unknown.
-Updated the reaction description.
-Amended text accordingly.
Additional information received from the consumer via MS One to One program on 15-Dec-2014:
-Added an event, tested positive for the JC virus.
-Updated the reaction description.
-Amended text accordingly
Additional information was received on 14-Jan-2015 from the patient's wife via MS One to One.
The case was upgraded to serious from non-serious.  The events of has difficulty walking/walks with feet pointed 
out/walks with a limp and impairs his balance were added. Text was amended accordingly.
Additional information was received from a patients spouse via nurse in MS One to One patient support program on
17-Jul-2015:
Company causality updated, difficulty walking and JC virus positive company causality updated, tingling of feet 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 393 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
added as event, therapy status updated, concomitant medications added and text was amended accordingly.