(b) (6) .This report was received from a 
clinical trial (b) (6)
 EudraCT: 2008-005237-30, and concerns a 33 month old female subject 
(subject ID:(b) (6)  Site ID: (b) (6) ) from the United States; Local case ID: Not reported.
The subject's height was 80.5 centimeters and weight was 11.8 kilograms. The subject's medical history included 
inflammatory bowel disease. The subject also had participated in the Improve (b) (6)  (formerly known as 
(b) (6)  The subject was treated with infliximab, recombinant (lyophilized powder, intravenous), 
unspecified dose and frequency, initiated on 19-FEB-2014 for inflammatory bowel disease.  Non-company suspect 
drugs included: methotrexate (unspecified, unknown), initiated on an unspecified date for an unknown indication. 
Concomitant medications included nystatin, paracetamol, colecalciferol, ferrous sulfate, multivitamin with iron, 
mesalazine and folic acid. The subject was treated with Sargramostim (leukine), initiated 04-JUN-2013 and 
discontinued on an unspecified date; reinitiated 11-DEC-2013 and discontinued on an unspecified date. The subject
had diverting ileostomy on (b) (6)  The subject was presented to the emergency department on (b) (6)
 with increased ostomy output with blood, decreased urinary output, and several episodes of non-bloody, non-
bilious emesis. These symptoms started acutely on the morning of presentation. She had no fever, no cough, and 
no respiratory symptoms; however, the subject did have elevated inflammatory markers (above her baseline): C -
reactive protein level of 3.0 (NR: 0.0 - 0.9) and sedimentation rate of 82 (NR: 0 - 20). She was subsequently 
admitted and found to be positive for Norovirus. An abdominal x-ray on (b) (6)  was negative for any 
obstructions. The subject was given Zofran (ondansetron). Although she initially needed intravenous fluids (normal 
saline bolus x 2) to maintain hydration, the subject demonstrated improved oral intake. By day 2 of admission, the 
subject's ostomy output had improved and she was advanced to a regular diet with good tolerance. Initially, in the 
emergency department, the subject's labs showed a BUN (blood urea nitrogen) of 38, a creatinine level of 1.1 
(range: 0.1 - 0.4), and a bicarbonate level of 11 (range: 20 - 26 ), which were thought to be consistent with acute 
kidney injury with hyperkalemia and metabolic acidosis. Nephrology was consulted and the etiology of the subject's 
acute kidney injury was thought to be hypovolemia in the setting of emesis and increased ostomy output, which 
improved following intravenous fluids. Nephrology noted that methotrexate could theoretically be nephrotoxic; 
however, this would be unusual to see in someone who has been stable on this medication for almost a year. By 
the time of discharge, her bicarbonate level had improved and stabilized to 18, her BUN was 21, and her creatinine 
level had normalized to 0.4. An ultrasound of the kidneys and bladder on (b) (6)  showed a mild, non-specific
increase in echogenicity of the kidneys. She was discharged on (b) (6)  after her symptoms and laboratory 
values had significantly improved and stabilized. The primary serious adverse event (SAE) was not secondary to 
disease progression. The SAE did not result in or was not related to a surgical procedure. The SAE did not result in 
disease progression.  The event was of moderate severity. Dose of infliximab, recombinant was not changed and 
action taken with methotrexate was not reported. The subject had recovered without sequelae from gastroenteritis 
norovirus on (b) (6)  The investigator considered the causality between gastroenteritis norovirus and 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 28 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
infliximab, recombinant as possible. The company causality was assessed as possible. The investigator assessed 
the event as possibly related to concomitant medications methotrexate, unlikely related (doubtful) to mesalazine, 
and not related to nystatin, paracetamol, colecalciferol, ferrous sulfate, multivitamin with iron and folic acid.
This report was serious (hospitalization).
Additional information was received on 26-JAN-2015.
Report contains no new information and no changes were made to the report.
Follow-up report was received on 28-JAN-2015
The report contains no new information. No changes were made to the report.
Additional information was received via SAE data reconciliation on 11-MAR-2016.
The site number ((b) (6) ) was updated in the report. Reporter contact details were updated in the report.