This solicited report was initially received from a consumer (patient) in the United States on 21-Jan-2015. Follow-up
information received from the patient on 27-Jan-2015 and additional information on 02-Feb-2015.  A patient (age 
and gender unknown) experienced unable to work (disability), positive for JC virus, hives on upper arms while on 
Ampyra.
The patient's past medical history included latex allergy, MS, walking difficulty, and hypertension. Concomitant 
medications at onset included Advil,Baclofen, cod liver oil, green tea, lisinopril, multivitamins, Tylenol, vitamin b12, 
folic acid, and vitamin D.
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on 03-Jan-2014 ( also reported as several years ago) at 10 mg twice daily for MS 
and help with walking. Co-suspect medications were Tecifdera (dimethyl fumarate) started on 26-Apr-2015 twice 
daily for MS and Tysabri started on unspecified date and unknown indications. 
On an unspecified date, the patient experienced unable to work. Patient mentioned they are disabled and on 
disability. Upon follow-up information received on 27-Jan-2015 and additional information on 02-Feb-2015, patient
stated she was positive for JC virus two times in Apr-2014 and experienced hives to upper arms starting 2-3 weeks 
ago while on Ampyra. Patient stated she started Ampyra several years ago when it was initially approved by the 
FDA and has been taking it  to help with walking. The patient self treated the hives with Benadryl before she was 
seen by a Nurse Practitioner (NP). The NP had the patient take Benadryl in the evening and Claritin and Allegra in 
the morning and apply topical Triamcinolone cream. The patient attributed the hives to Tecfidera. Patient was 
switched from Tysabri to Tecfidera on 26-Apr-2014 after she was positive for the JC virus. Patient mentioned she is
still on disability and unable to work and does not know if anything has to due with Ampyra.
The outcome of unable to work is not resolved. The outcome of positive for JC virus is unknown. The outcome of 
hives on upper arms is resolving. 
Ampyra action taken was dose not changed. Tysabri action taken was drug withdrawn. Tecfidera action taken was 
dose not changed.
The patient assessed the relationship between Ampyra and the events as unknown.
Follow-up information received from the patient on 27-Jan-2015 and additional information on 02-Feb-2014 
provided, dose, indication, start date of Ampyra, medical history, concomitant medications, co-suspect medications,
new events, causality, treatment and outcome. This information was incorporated into the narrative
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 432 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information