This is a literature case from the United States of America. A 69-year-old male patient developed graft versus host 
disease and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PMLE) while receiving tacrolimus. 
The patient's medical history included transplantation, acute myelomonocytic leukemia with complex cytogenetics 
and an FLT3-ITD mutation (gene mutation). Co-suspect medications included idarubicin and high-dose cytarabine, 
decitabine, fludarabine, busulfan, cyclophosphamide, methylprednisolone, mycophenolate mofetil, pentostatin, 
mefloquine, mirtazapine, prednisone and immunoglobulins.
The patient diagnosed with acute myelomonocytic leukaemia with complex cytogenetics and an FLT3-ITD 
mutation. His disease failed to respond to initial induction therapy with idarubicin and high-dose cytarabine, and the 
patient instead received salvage therapy that included AC220 and experienced a morphologic complete remission. 
He was subsequently treated with decitabine until undergoing a 10/10 HLA-matched unrelated donor allogeneic 
bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Donor and recipient were both cytomegalovirus-negative. His conditioning 
regimen consisted of fludarabine, 40 mg/m2 for 4 days and pharmacokinetic dose-adjusted busulfan targeting a 
daily area under the curve of 4000 micro Mol/min-1. Post-transplant, the patient received cyclophosphamide, 50 
mg/kg on post-transplant day 3 and 4 and tacrolimus for immunosuppression. On post-transplant day 26, results of 
a bone marrow biopsy showed full donor chimerism and no evidence of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). He then 
developed steroid-refractory grade III acute skin and colon graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) on post-transplant 
day 55, which was initially treated with methylprednisolone, 2 mg/kg, and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF). Because 
of an inadequate response, MMF was discontinued and the patient received 1 cycle of pentostatin, 1.5 mg/m2 on 
days 1 through 3 (post-transplant day 63-65) with good response. On continued improvement of the patient's 
GVHD, tacrolimus and prednisone were completely tapered by post-transplant day 140.
On post-transplant day 315, the patient experienced new-onset expressive aphasia and right upper extremity 
dyspraxia. A brain MRI showed a 1.7 x 2.0-cm periventricular lesion in the left centrum semiovale involving the 
white matter with peripheral T2 enhancement. Results of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cellular, biochemical, and 
routine microbiology studies were within normal limits, but qualitative CSF polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was 
positive for John Cunningham virus (JCV), consistent with a diagnosis of PML, and serum PCR showed 1724 
copies/mL of JCV DNA. The absolute CD4+ T-cell count was low at 178 cells/microliter and the CD8+ T-cell count 
was 372 cells/microliter. The patient was started on therapy with mefloquine, 250 mg/d for 3 days followed by 250 
mg weekly, and mirtazapine, 30 mg/d. He also received 1 dose of intravenous immunoglobulin at 0.5 g/kg. After 
day 25 of mefloquine and mirtazapine therapy, the patient showed continued rapid neurologic decline and therapy 
was discontinued. A donor lymphocyte infusion was considered to facilitate immune reconstitution, but because of 
the patient's severe irreversible and progressive neurologic damage, the decision was made to transition the patient
to hospice care. He expired shortly afterwards on post-transplant day 361.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 437 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Literature Reference: 
Lee HC, Mulanovich V, Nieto Y. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy after allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation for acute myeloid leukemia. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2014 Dec;12(12):1660-4.
This case (USA/USA/15/0045566) was linked with the case (USA/USA/15/0045574), as the reporter was same.