AER 1523903, is a spontaneous case, received on 30/Jun/2011 from a lawyer and concerns a 71 years old female 
patient who experienced emotional distress and died due to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy following 
treatment with rituximab (Rituxan). 
On 13 Nov 2004, she started therapy with intravenous rituximab infusion for non-hodgkin's lymphoma. On 04 Feb 
2010, she again received rituximab. Subsequently the patient developed opportunistic infection known as 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). On (b) (6)  she died. She also experienced emotional 
distress.
The reporting lawyer assessed the events of PML and emotional distress to be related to rituximab. 
Following medical evaluation, the company assessed the events of emotional distress as medically significant.
The following information was extracted from medical records: The patient had medical history of diabetes mellitus 
and depression. The patient was allergic to Contrast Dye. Family history included colon cancer. The patient had 
taken citalopram, docusate sodium, insulin aspart, codeine phosphate/paracetamol, lidocaine, midodrine 
hydrochloride, prednisone, lansoprazole, senna, temazepam, paracetamol, ranitidine hydrochloride, ephedrine, 
glycopyrronium, fentanyl citrate, esmolol hydrochloride, mannitol, dexamethasone, vecuronium bromide, 
phenylephrine, propofol, cefazolin, nicardipine hydrochloride, ondansetron and neostigmine bromide, concomitantly.
On an unspecified date in 1980, patient underwent cholecystectomy. On 13 Nov 2004, the patient began treatment 
with rituximab for the indication of non-hodgkin's lymphoma. On an unspecified date, the patient's health began to 
deteriorate and she lost the ability to focus, lost her memory lost strength in the left side, lost ability to avoid objects 
while walking and suffered visual, speech and personality changes. From(b) (6)  to (b) (6)  the patient 
was admitted with a history of factor VIII inhibitor which was acquired, initially manifested as bleeding diathesis. She
was treated with series of rituximab and cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) therapies which resulted in transient lowering
of inhibitor. The patient recently received a modified version with rituximab and CHOP. The day she was 
discharged, she developed diarrhea and was given metronidazole. Her discharge medications included rituximab, 
loperamide and prednisone. On 20 Apr 2005, in a follow up for idiopathic lymphadenopathy, she had a high titer 
factor 8 inhibitor and associated bleeding and bruisability. She also complained of pruritis (new event), which was 
affecting her quality of life. She experienced decreased bethseda titer units while on therapy with rituximab and 
cyclophosphamide. On 23 Jun 2005, in a followup, she reported to be doing well on rituximab. Prednisone dose 
was tapered and an additional cycle of rituximab as recommended. On 16 Aug 2005, a maintenance schedule of 
rituximab was planned. She still had a high titer of acquired factor 8 inhibitor. On an unspecified date, she however 
complained of dizziness (new event). On 20 Sep 2005, she was scheduled for the hernial surgery, but had 
propensity to bleed because of underlying high titer factor 8 inhibitor. On (b) (6)  incarcerated ventral hernia 
was performed. On 29 Nov 2005, she was on maintenance therapy with rituximab, the patient developed a 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 450 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
hematoma (new event) at the left parietal skin. On 08 Jan 2007, she was continued on prednisone and her platelets
in normal range. She complained of soreness on right eyelid (new event). On an unspecified date, she experienced 
severe thrombocytopenia and Sjogren's syndrome and lupus (new event). She had taken azathioprine (infliximab), 
danazol in the past. On 06 Apr 2008, CT Brain revealed mild to moderate atrophy. On 07 Apr 2008, CT head 
revealed hematoma formation (see lab text). On 14 Oct 2008, frontal brain biopsy was suggestive of PML (see 
labs). On 24 Oct 2008, in a followup for PML, the disease was reported to be manifested by joint pain and was 
treated with prednisone and hydroxychloroquine. She also reportedly had ivIG and AMG 351. On 05 Nov 2009, she 
complained of weakness. On (b) (6)  she was admitted to the hospital for Weakness. She had complaints of 
light headedness, dizziness and weakness. The physical examination revealed mild weakness in lower extremity of 
left side. On the same day, CT Scan was negative and MRI revealed ill defined hyper intensity in left cerebellar 
hemisphere. She was placed on IV steroids with almost immediate improvement. On (b) (6)  Carotid Doppler 
sonography revealed minimal plaque, no stenosis. On (b) (6)  Protein electrophoresis revealed absence of 
identified protein and CT Scan revealed no evidence of pathologically enlarged adenopathy in neck, chest, 
abdomen and pelvis, persistent mild bilateral hydroureteronephrosis. On the same day, Lumbar puncture was 
carried out and cerebrospinal fluid culture revealed very rare lymphocytes. On (b) (6)  she was discharged 
with diagnosis of possible lymphoma of brain. The last dose of rituximab prior to the event was administered on 04 
Feb 2010. On (b) (6)  she was admitted to the hospital with a diagnosis of intractable vomiting, treated with 
intravenous Pantoprazole, sodium chloride, Filgrastim, Fluconazole. On the same day, Obstruction series was done
which revealed no typical mechanical bowel obstruction, CT Brain revealed ill-defined hypodensity in left cerebellar 
hemisphere. On 02 Mar MRI Brain was done which revealed ill defined hyper intensity in left cerebellar hemisphere 
with ill defined subtle enhancement. On (b) (6)  patient was hospitalised due to cerebellar tumor and 
prednisone induced diabetes and Factor 8 antibody inhibitor lymphoma. On (b) (6)  Brain MRI revealed left 
anterior cerebellar mass concerning for lymphoma related to her medical history. On (b) (6)  Sub occipital 
craniotomy was done for tumor resection. On the same day, Cerebellar lesion biopsy revealed cerebritis with 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. On (b) (6)  CT chest revealed incidental aortic and mitral valve 
plane calcifications and small right lung pleural and parenchymal modules, unlikely related to lymphoma. On the 
same day, abdominal ultrasound revealed presence of calcified structure with prominent posterior acoustic shadow 
in keeping with a calcification and is continuous with the xiphoid process and no soft tissue masses or collections 
are identified over and around the region. The patient had orthostatic hypotension and was on midodrine and fall 
due to hypotension with hip fracture. On an unspecified date, patient underwent Bilateral hip replacement, Right 
inguinal hernia repair and Bilateral cataract surgery.  On (b) (6)  patient was discharged. On (b) (6)
she complained of chest pain. She was feeling weak, not feeling well. She was assessed to have change in mental 
status, Status post cardiac catheter. Her CT scan showed sub occipital craniotomy defect, low attenuation 
associated with mass effect within left cerebellar hemisphere and findings consistent with CNS lymphoma. She had
sub occipital craniotomy for tumor resection. On (b) (6) , she was discharged. On (b) (6)  the patient 
presented with PML death (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy).
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 451 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
AER 791678 has been nullified since a new AER 1523903 has been created for follow-up received with an earlier 
initial received date. All data has been merged in to copy case AER 1523903 which remains as active case.