This case was reported in a literature article and described the occurrence of brain death in a 37-year-old male 
patient who received abacavir sulphate, lamivudine (Epzicom) tablet for hiv-1 infection. (Kawakami T et al.. 
Development of Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma Associated with Human Immunodeficiency Virus and 
JC Virus Infection.. J Clin Exp Hematop. 2014;54(3):211-7. 2014; 54: 211-217.) 
Co-suspect products included lamivudine, zidovudine (Combivir) tablet for hiv-1 infection, lamivudine (Epivir) tablet 
for hiv-1 infection, stavudine (Zerit) capsule for hiv-1 infection, efavirenz (Stocrin) tablet for hiv-1 infection, kaletra 
unknown for hiv-1 infection, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (Viread) tablet for hiv-1 infection, nelfinavir mesylate 
(Viracept) tablet for hiv-1 infection, atazanavir (Reyataz) capsule for hiv-1 infection, ritonavir (Norvir) unknown for 
hiv-1 infection, raltegravir (Isentress) tablet for hiv-1 infection and truvada tablet for hiv-1 infection. 
Concurrent medical conditions included haemophilia a, hiv-1 infection and haemophilic arthritis. 
On an unknown date, the patient started Epzicom (oral) at an unknown dose and frequency, Combivir (oral) at an 
unknown dose and frequency, Epivir (oral) at an unknown dose and frequency, Zerit (oral) at an unknown dose and
frequency, Stocrin (oral) at an unknown dose and frequency, kaletra (unknown) at an unknown dose and frequency,
Viread (oral) at an unknown dose and frequency, Viracept (oral) at an unknown dose and frequency, Reyataz (oral) 
at an unknown dose and frequency, Norvir (oral) at an unknown dose and frequency, Isentress (oral) at an 
unknown dose and frequency and truvada (oral) at an unknown dose and frequency. In November 2012, unknown 
after starting Epzicom, Combivir and Epivir and an unknown time after starting Viread and Norvir, the patient 
experienced pyrexia. In March 2013, the patient experienced dyspnoea. In (b) (6)  the patient 
experienced brain death (serious criteria death and GSK medically significant). On an unknown date, the patient 
experienced fatigue (serious criteria hospitalization), inappetence (serious criteria hospitalization), progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (serious criteria GSK medically significant), jc virus infection (serious criteria GSK 
medically significant), primary central nervous system lymphoma (serious criteria GSK medically significant), 
orientation disturbed, hyperreflexia, slurred speech, hypobulia, lethargy and akinetic mutism (serious criteria GSK 
medically significant). The patient was treated with mefloquine hydrochloride and rituximab. The action taken with 
Epzicom was unknown. The action taken with Stocrin was unknown. The action taken with Isentress was unknown.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 471 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On an unknown date, the outcome of the brain death was fatal and the outcome of the fatigue, inappetence, 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, jc virus infection, primary central nervous system lymphoma, 
orientation disturbed, hyperreflexia, slurred speech, hypobulia, lethargy, akinetic mutism, pyrexia and dyspnoea 
were unknown. The patient died in (b) (6)  The reported cause of death was brain death. An autopsy was
performed.
The reporter considered the brain death, fatigue, inappetence, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, jc virus 
infection, primary central nervous system lymphoma, orientation disturbed, hyperreflexia, slurred speech, hypobulia,
lethargy, akinetic mutism, pyrexia and dyspnoea to be unrelated to Epzicom, Combivir, Epivir and Norvir.
A 37-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of fatigue and anorexia that had persisted for more than 
six months. His previous medical history included hemophilia A and HIV-1 infection through blood product 
transfusions in infancy. Anti-retroviral therapy (ART) was started in 1993, but his HIV-I viral load (VL) had been high
because of poor adherence to the prescription and leukocytopenia had been remarkable, with the number of CD4-
positive lymphocytes ranging between 200 and 400?10^6/L. The results of re-peated tests for drug resistance to 
HIV-1 were negative. All kinds of effort were made to improve the patient's adherence up to 2006, when he 
eventually showed substantial reduction in VL in October 2006: HIV-1 RNA < 40 copies/mL. While the VL remained
low, the number of CD4-positive lympho-cytes ranged between 300 and 450 ? 10^6/L until December 2012.
On admission, the results of general physical examination were unremarkable. His right ankle was contracted due 
to hemophilic arthritis. Neurologically, he was alert and fully oriented. He had an expressionless face and spoke 
monotonously with a soft voice. Bradykinesia was evident. There was generalized hyperreflexia and positive snout 
reflexes. Babinski signs were absent. He could walk with small steps while holding onto a stand. Visual field and 
sensory examination results were normal. He was not incontinent in terms of urine or stool. Blood testing showed a 
decreased CD4-positive lymphocyte count of 257 ? 10^6/L and undetectable HIV-1 viral load. On magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI), high-signal-intensity areas in a T2-weighted dimage (T2WlI) were observed in the 
cerebellum, mesencephalon, basal nucleus, thalamus, corpus callosum, medulla oblongata, and cervical cord, 
without gadolinium-containing contrast enhancement. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination showed slight 
elevation of protein (63 mg/dL) with a normal cell count. JCV-DNA, cytomegalovirus-DNA, Epstein-Barr virus 
(EBV)-DNA, and HIV-1 RNA were not detected in the CSF by polymerase chain reaction methods. The cytology 
showed no malignancy and soluble interleukin-2 receptor level was 130 U/mL. The patient was clinically diagnosed 
with PML.
Mefloquine treatment (275 mg/day p.o. for 3 days and then 275 mg/week p.o.) was started, but his slurred speech 
and reduced motivation/lethargy deteriorated. The patient received methyl prednisolone (mPSL) pulse therapy 
(1,000 mg/day i.v. for 3 days) four times in March and April, 2012. However, the response was minimal. Intravenous
administration of immunoglobulin and mPSL pulse therapy in June 2012 also did not improve the MRI findings. 
In (b) (6)  brain biopsy was performed from the right temporal lobe lesion. This biopsy revealed mildly 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 472 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
increased neuroglia cells without lymphocyte infiltration or degenerated lesions. On immunohistochemistry for JCV, 
Agno C was mainly positive in neuronal cell bodies; VP1BC was positive in nuclei, and bodies of neuronal cells and 
neuroglia cells; and VP2 was positive in nuclei, bodies of neuronal cells, and bodies of neuroglia cells, 
demonstrating the existence of JCV in the brain. However, pathological findings of PML, such as bizarre giant 
astrocytes and oligodendroglial intranuclear inclusions, were not observed in the biopsied tissue. Toward 
September 2012, the patient entered a state of akinetic mutism, and the brain lesions also showed relevant 
deterioration in the bilateral white matter and the left frontal cortex on MRI. In November 2012, the patient started to
have remittent fever, when multiple mass lesions in the midbrain and the right thalamus were revealed by brain MRI
and computed tomography examinations. The MRI lesions were enhanced by gadoliniumcontaining contrast agent. 
A second brain biopsy was indicated, but it could not be perfomed because the prolonged activated partial 
thromboplastin time was not normalized, even after the administration of factor VIII. Laboratory data showed normal
lactase dehydrogenase, increased soluble interleukin-2 receptor 747 U/mL, negative EBV viral load, and negative 
anti-toxoplasma IgG. There was no lymphadenopathy. The diagnosis of PCNSL was made based on the MRI and 
computed tomography findings, as well as the patient's underlying condition.
Since independent breathing had become difficult, the patient was put on a mechanical ventilator in (b) (6)
He responded to four doses of rituximab (375 mg/m^2 i.v. weekly), supporting the diagnosis of PCNSL. In July, the 
mass lesions in the brain became enlarged again and did not respond to another rituximab therapy. He died as a 
result of whole-brain death in (b) (6) . Macroscopic findings of the autopsied specimen revealed broad 
severe degeneration in the cerebrum and brain stem. The infiltration of lymphoid cells was only observed in the 
remaining tissues around the Virchow-Robin space. The size of the lymphoid cells ranged from medium to large, 
and immunohistochemistry showed that those cells were CD45 (LCA)-positive, CD20-positive, CD3-negative, and 
EBV-encoded small RNA-1-negative. Clonality analysis of the specimen revealed the rearrangement of 
immunoglobulin heavy chain. B-cell malignant lymphoma was confirmed, but findings of PML 1 were not seen.
PML may also develop in patients with blood CD4-positive T-cell counts of no less than 200 cells/?L after the 
initiating ART.
PML may develop or worsen with antiretroviral therapy, in spite of a recovery of the immune system. Immune 
reconstitution following initiation of combined antiretroviral therapy may lead to activation of an inflammatory 
response, that is, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS), to detectable or latent JCV infection.
The effect of IRIS on the development of PML might have been small in the present case.