Published Literature
Case Report
Events: Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), Autoimmune hemolytic anemia, JC polyomavirus 
(JCV)
A male patient, aged 50 years at presentation, was noted to have lymphocytosis on a routine complete blood cell 
count in 1996 and thus diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) was made. By 1999, he required treatment
and received fludarabine for five treatment cycles, followed by fludarabine-rituximab for three treatment cycles. His 
complete blood cell count normalized following therapy. However, by December 2001, he required treatment again 
because of a rising white cell count, splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy. At that time, he received fludarabine, 
cyclophosphamide and rituximab (FCR) for four treatment cycles, complicated by autoimmune hemolytic anemia. 
His CLL responded to therapy but by January 2006, he required therapy again and was treated with oral 
fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab for three treatment cycles without response and then with intravenous
FCR for three treatment cycles, ending in July 2006 and resulting in a nodular partial response. In 2007, CLL 
progressed and he received a two-week course of lenalidomide that was interrupted when he developed weakness 
of the right upper extremity evolving to paralysis, attributed to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
based on clinical and MRI findings; cerebrospinal fluid viral studies were initially non-diagnostic. Later in 2007, JC 
polyomavirus (JCV) was detected in the cerebrospinal fluid, assuring the diagnosis of PML. The MRI showed 
demyelinated foci. In September 2007, he received a five-day course of cytarabine for the treatment of PML. In 
October-November 2007, he developed refractory focal motor seizures and was treated with high-dose cytarabine, 
valproic acid, levetiracetam and clonazepam. In December 2007, he received investigational natural killer cell 
therapy. In February 2008, he was treated with infusions of cluster of differentiation (CD)3/CD28 ex vivo carried out-
stimulated autologous T-cells on a compassionate use protocol at the University of Pennsylvania in an attempt to 
reverse his therapy-related immunodeficiency and to enhance antiviral immunity. He also received intravenous 
immunoglobulin. In May and June 2008, he received investigational JCV peptide pulsed dendritic cell vaccinations 
with granulocyte-monocyte colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Although neurologically stable at this point, he 
developed severe anemia with brisk hemolysis and symptomatic massive splenomegaly and underwent 
splenectomy in (b) (6)  Other treatment modalities for PML include mirtazapine and cyproheptadine,5-
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 466 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
hydroxytryptamine 2A (5HT2A) serotonin blockers. There is evidence suggesting that treatment with 5HT2A 
blockers might slow down progression of PML, since the 5HT2A receptor is a receptor for JCV permitting the 
infection of glial cells.
In (b) (6)  the patient underwent human leukocyte antigen-matched sibling allogeneic stem cell 
transplantion following a nonmyeloablative preparative regimen that included fludarabine, melphalan and total body 
irradiation (200 cGy). The donor of bone marrow was the patient's sister. Shortly after transplantation, the patient 
suffered from intercurrent sepsis caused by Pseudomonas sp., then contracted viral pneumonia and, subsequently,
gastrointestinal clostridial infection.
About three months post-transplantation, following reduction of immunosuppression and a donor lymphocyte 
infusion, the patient developed gastrointestinal involvement by graft-versus-host disease, confirmed by biopsy of 
large intestine. Graft-versus-host disease later became manifest in the patient's skin.
About five months post-transplantation, after an episode of enterococcal cystitis treated with Augmentin, JCV 
disease progressed rapidly. This decline happened two years after the first diagnosis of JCV infection. The patient 
developed tetraparesis, rapidly lost vigilance, and died from respiratory and septic complications due to aspiration 
pneumonia.
Authors' Comments
PML is caused by re-activation of the JC polyomavirus (JCV). JCV has been described almost exclusively in 
immunosuppressed individuals, with the first description made more than 50 years ago in patients with chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and Hodgkin's disease.