This case was reported by a other health professional via call center representative and described the occurrence 
of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in a adult female patient who received belimumab (Benlysta) powder
for infusion for systemic lupus erythematosus. 
Co-suspect products included lamotrigine (Lamictal) unknown for seizure. 
Concurrent medical conditions included intractable epilepsy (related to Lupus), migraine, blood pressure high, pain, 
asthma, lupus encephalitis and systemic lupus erythematosus. Concomitant products included salbutamol 
(Albuterol), lorazepam (Ativan), losartan, pregabalin (Lyrica), methotrexate, hydrocodone bitartrate + paracetamol 
(Norco) and sumatriptan. 
On 17th June 2011, the patient started Benlysta (intravenous inf) 700 mg at variable dosing. On an unknown date, 
the patient started Lamictal at an unknown dose and frequency. On an unknown date, an unknown time after 
starting Benlysta and Lamictal, the patient experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (serious criteria
hospitalization, GSK medically significant and life threatening), encephalopathy (serious criteria hospitalization, 
GSK medically significant and life threatening), seizure (serious criteria hospitalization, GSK medically significant 
and life threatening) and lack of drug effect (serious criteria hospitalization and life threatening). The patient was 
treated with lacosamide (Vimpat). Benlysta was continued with no change. The action taken with Lamictal was 
unknown. On an unknown date, the outcome of the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, encephalopathy, 
seizure and lack of drug effect were unknown. 
It was unknown if the reporter considered the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, encephalopathy, seizure
and lack of drug effect to be related to Benlysta and Lamictal.
Additional details: Nurse Practitioner calling on behalf of physician and also spoke with physician during this call as 
well. This report is a female patient that has been on Benlysta since June of 2011, has experienced seizures. It was
unknown when her seizures started initially or when she experienced her first one after starting Benlysta, but the 
nurse practitioner did note from the patient's chart seizures in early 2012.   The physician noted that the mother of 
the patient is a nurse and has concerns that Benlysta is causing PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. 
The physician, who is the patient's Rheumatologist and the patient's Neurologist don't believe this to be the case, 
but are researching the reports of PML with Benlysta.  The patient continues to receive Benlysta and her last dose 
received was yesterday.  The patient was hospitalized in (b) (6)  for the seizures.   The physician notes the 
patient was taking max dose of Lamictal at the time of her seizures; however he wasn't able to provide the dose or 
her how long she has been on Lamictal.  He did add that Vimpat was suppose to have been added at during her 
admission in (b) (6)  but just got added this week.   The only Serious questions asked are those documented, 
the physician needed to exit the call and handed the phone back to Nurse Practitioner.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 476 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Follow-up information was received from the patient's physician via a GSK contact on 11 March 2015. The 
physician reported the patient's neurological condition had improved since the previous report and he believes it is 
due to the adjustment of the patient's anti-epileptic medication (unspecified). The patient has not had the elective 
MRI due to insurance problems. The physician believes the PML is very unlikely. No adjustment was made to the 
patient's immunosuppression at this time. No further information was provided.
Follow up information was received on 09 February 2015 from a physician via a sales representative and was 
previously reported in case US2015GSK020639. The sales representative reported the information to a call center 
representative. The physician reported the use of Benlysta in a patient of unknown gender. A physician informed 
the sales representative that he had a mother who was convinced that her son or daughter (gender unspecified) 
had progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. The physician reported that he did not think this was the case but 
was going to have magnetic resonance imaging testing performed for evaluation. The physician informed the sales 
representative that he had already made a report, however, the sales representative did not know when or how the 
report was made. No additional details were available. 
Case US2015GSK020639 was found to be a duplicate of US2015010697. All subsequent information will be 
entered into the case of record US2015010697.