Narrative as reported by Japan Tobacco (reference ID JP-JT-EVA201500185GILEAD-001):
A 37-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of fatigue and anorexia that had persisted for more than 
six months. His previous medical history included hemophilia A and HIV -1 infection through blood product 
transfusions in infancy. Anti-retroviral therapy (ART) was started in 1993,but his HIV -1 viral load (VL) had been 
high because of poor adherence to the prescription and leukocytopenia had been remarkable,with the number of 
CD4-positive Iymphocytes ranging between 200 and 400 x 10 6/L . The results of repeated tests for drug resistance
to HIV -1 were negative. All kinds of effort were made to improve the patient's adherence up to 2006,when he 
eventually showed substantial reduction in VL in October 2006: HIV-I RNA<40copies/mL. While the VL remained 
low,the number of CD4-positive Iymphocytes ranged between 300 and 450 x 10 6/L until December 2012 
On admission,the results of general physical examination were unremarkable. His right ankle was contracted due to
hemophilic arthritis. Neurologically,he was alert and fully oriented. He had an expressionless face and spoke 
monotonously with a soft voice. Bradykinesia was evident. There was generalized hyperreflexia and positive snout 
reflexes. Babinski signs were absent. He could walk with small steps while holding onto a stand. Visual field and 
sensory examination results were normal. He was not incontinent in terms of urine or stool. Blood testing showed a 
decreased CD4-positive lymphocyte count of 257 x 10 6/L and undetectable HIV-1 viral load. On magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI),high-signal-intensity areas in a T2-weighted image (T2WI)were observed in the 
cerebellum,mesencephalon,basal nucleus,thalamus,corpus callosum,medulla oblongata,and cervical cord,without 
gadolinium-containing contrast enhancement. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination showed slight elevation of 
protein (63 mg/dL) with a normal cell count. JCV-DNA,cytomegalovirus-DNA,Epstein-Barrvirus (EBV)-DNA,and HIV
-1 RNA were not detected in the CSF by polymerase chain reaction methods. The cytology showed no malignancy 
and soluble interleukin-2 receptor level was 130 U/mL. The patient was clinically diagnosed with PML.
Mefloquine treatment (275 mg/day p. o. for 3 days and then 275 mg/week p.o.) was started,but his slurred speech 
and reduced motivation/lethargy deteriorated. The patient received methyl prednisolone (mPSL) pulse therapy 
(1,000mg/day i.v. for 3days) four times in March and April,2012.
However,the response was minimal. Intravenous administration of immunoglobulin and mPSL pulse therapy in 
June 2012 also did not improve the MRI findings.
In (b) (6) ,brain biopsy was performed from the right temporal lobe lesion. This biopsy revealed mildly increased
neuroglia cells without lymphocyte infiltration or degenerated lesions. On immunohistochemistry for JCV,Agno C 
was mainly positive in neuronal cell bodies;VP1BC was positive in nuclei,and bodies of neuronal cells and neuroglia
cells; and VP2 was positive in nuclei, bodies of neuronal cells,and bodies of neuroglia cells,demonstrating the 
existence of JCV in the brain. However,pathological findings of PML,such as bizarre giant astrocytes and 
oligodendroglial intranuclear inclusions,were not observed in the biopsied tissue. Toward September 2012,the 
patient entered a state of akinetic mutism,and the brain lesions also showed relevant deterioration in the bilateral 
white matter and the left frontal cortex on MRI. In November 2012,the patient started to have remittent fever,when 
multiple mass lesions in the midbrain and the right thalamus were revealed by brain MRl and computed tomography
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 480 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
examinations. The MRI lesions were enhanced by gadoliniumcontaining contrast agent. A second brain biopsy was 
indicated,but it could not be performed because the prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time was not 
normalized,even after the administration of factor VIII. Laboratory data showed normal lactase 
dehydrogenase,increased solubleinterleukin-2 receptor 747 U/mL,negative EBV viral load,and negative anti-
toxoplasma IgG. There was no Iymphadenopathy. The diagnosis of PCNSL was made based on the MRl and 
computed tomography findings,as well as the patient's underlying condition. Since independent breathing had 
become difficult,the patient was put on a mechanical ventilator in (b) (6) .He responded to four doses of 
rituximab (375 mg/m2 i.v. weekly) supporting the diagnosis of PCNSL. In July,the mass lesions in the brain became
enlarged again and did not respond to another rituximab therapy. He died as a result of whole-brain death in 
(b) (6) Macroscopic findings of the autopsied specimen revealed broad severe degeneration in the 
cerebrum and brain stem. The infiltration of lymphoid cells was only observed in the remaining tissues around the 
Virchow-Robin space. The size of the lymphoid cells ranged from medium to large,and immunohistochemistry 
showed that those cells were CD45 (LCA)-positive,C D20-positive,CD3-negative,and EBV-encoded small RNA-1- 
negative. Clonality analysis of the specimen revealed the rearrangement of immunoglobulin heavy chain. B-cell 
malignant lymphoma was confirmed,but findings of PML were not seen.
The initial report was received by Gilead on 21 January 2015.