AER 1401602 is a spontaneous case received on 14/May/2014 from a physician via company representative and 
concerns a 50 year old female patient who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy while being 
treated with rituximab and natalizumab (Tysabri).
Patient medical history included HIV negative woman, with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis diagnosed in 2000 
received 82 infusions of natalizumab monotherapy over a period of 6.9 years. She had known positive JC virus 
(JCV) status with latest index of 1.9. She developed progressive right lower extremity weakness. Brain nuclear 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) performed at the development of new clinical symptoms revealed more 
conspicuous subcortical lesions in the left fronto-parietal region. She underwent a lumbar puncture due to high 
suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. The ultra sensitive quantitative real time polymerase 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 484 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
chain reaction assay developed by focus diagnostics with a reference range of less than 50 copies/mL was 
negative for JCV DNA. The rest of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) studies were also normal including cell count, 
protein, and glucose. She continued to have progression of right lower extremity weakness and required a use of a 
cane.
On an unknown date, the patient started therapy with natalizumab (dosage regimen not provided) for unknown 
indication for 5 years up until Sep/2013. In Jan/2014, she started intravenous drip of rituximab 1g (1 infusion 2 
weeks apart) for multiple sclerosis. Later, she developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) which 
was confirmed by cerebrospinal fluid analysis and Polymerase Chain Reaction. Repeat imaging (b)(6) months later, 
(b) (6)  revealed a clear new ill-defined confluent area of T2/FLAIR hyper intensity and enhancement on 
gadolinium enhanced T1- weighted imaging, which involved the subcortical white matter in the medial posterior left 
frontal lobe. Repeat lumbar puncture was performed with CSF sample sent to (b) (6)  lab. 13 copies of the JC virus 
were detected. She was hospitalized due to worsening clinical status, where her course was complicated by 
seizures and infections which led the family to decide on Hospice care. She passed away(b)(6)  months after the 
diagnosis of PML was made. It was unknown if autopsy was performed or not.
At the time of death, the outcome of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and therapy ongoing status of 
rituximab was not reported.
The physician did not assess the causality of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy with rituximab but stated 
that it was clearly natalizumab induced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), which was not 
diagnosed as such prior to starting rituximab despite their best efforts (magnetic resonance imaging and 
cerebrospinal fluid analysis).
The physician assessed the event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as medically significant.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML.
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 21/Oct/2014 and following information was added to the case: medical 
history updated, natalizumab as suspect, Lab test. event description updated.
The following information originally received on 14/May/2014 was corrected using the latest received date of the 
previous report (21/Oct/2014): the event term was updated to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 485 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
previously captured as progressive multifocal encephalopathy.