This solicited report was initially received from a consumer (patient) in the United States on 06-Feb-2014. Follow-up
information was received from the physician on 06-Mar-2014.  Upon follow-up received from a consumer (patient) 
on 07-Apr-2014, the case was upgraded to serious.  Follow-up information was received from a physician on 28-
Apr-2014 and 02-May-2014. A female patient, 60 years old at the time of this report, experienced a mild heart 
attack (hospitalization, medically significant), pneumonia (hospitalization), double vision, blurred vision, a relapse, 
and a positive JC virus test while on Ampyra.
The patient's past medical history was not provided. The patient's family medical history was not provided. 
Concomitant medications at onset included Aubagio, Synthroid and other unspecified medications. 
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on an unspecified date at 10 mg, orally, twice daily (bid) for an unknown 
indication.  Additional co-suspect medication included Tysabri; dosing information, therapy dates and indication 
were not provided.
On an unspecified date, the patient experienced symptoms of a relapse including double vision and blurred vision. 
It was reported that the physician ordered a vision test and a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) test.  Treatment 
for the events was not reported.  Additionally, the patient had a positive JC virus test secondary to Tysabri on an 
unspecified date. On(b) (6)  the patient reported that she had a mild heart attack and pneumonia during 
therapy. The patient also reported that she received unspecified treatment while hospitalized for four days. At the 
time of this report, no other information was provided. In follow-up information received on 28-Apr-2014 and 02-
May-2014, the patient's physician reported that he was unaware of an adverse reaction.
The outcomes of the events were unknown.
Ampyra dosage was unchanged. 
Causality between the events and Ampyra was not provided.  The physician did not relate positive JC virus test to 
Ampyra. The patient did not assess the relationship between Ampyra and the events of mild heart attack and 
pneumonia.
Follow-up information received on 06-Mar-2014 provided: new event and co-suspect medication. This information 
has been incorporated into the narrative.
Follow-up information received from the consumer (patient) on 07-Apr-2014 included: two new events (which 
upgraded the case to serious).  This information has been incorporated into the narrative.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 496 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Follow-up information received from the physician on 28-Apr-2014 and 02-May-2014 provided a statement noting 
that the physician was unaware of an adverse reaction.  This information has been incorporated into the narrative.