This solicited report was initially received from a consumer (patient) in the United States on 16-Jun-2014. Additional
information was received from the consumer (patient) on 18-Jun-2014. Additional information was received from a 
business partner on 02-Jul-2014. Follow-up information received from an Acorda Quality Assurance (QA) evaluator 
on 15-Jul-2014. Follow-up information was received from the patient on 04-Aug-2014. Additional information was 
received from the consumer (patient) on 26-Aug-2015.  A female patient, 52 years of age at the time of reporting, 
with multiple sclerosis (MS) experienced white blood cell (WBC) got dangerously low (medically significant), old 
lesion in cervical spine area that might have flared up, JCV antibody positive, headaches, issues with her walking, 
and had no benefit from it / no detectable change in her walking / ineffective while on Ampyra.
The patient's past medical history included MS, issues with walking started in Mar-2012, heat related symptoms 
from MS, and her WBC got dangerously low (reported as occurring for approximately six to seven years prior to 
starting Ampyra). The patient had no history of headaches. Family medical history was not provided. Concomitant 
medications at onset included Avonex for MS, Tecfidera since an unspecified date in Apr-2014, progesterone 200 
mg daily (qd), estrogen 0.05 mg patch, and Celebrex. Additional start dates, additional dosing information, routes of
administration, and indications for use were not provided. The concomitant medications were ongoing.
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on an unspecified date in Sep-2012 at 10 mg orally every 12 hours for MS and to 
improve walking in MS. Ampyra was discontinued 3-4 months later on an unspecified date in 2012 and restarted on
11-Jul-2014 at 10 orally every 12 hours.  Avonex (interferon beta-1a) was considered a co-suspect medication, 
started on an unspecified date approximately 17 years prior to the report for MS. 
The patient reported that she started Ampyra in Sep-2012, but she stopped taking it approximately three to four 
months later because she had no benefit from it. She reported that there was no detectable change in her walking. 
She noted that her physician had been conducting a timed walking test and she was timing herself on a treadmill at 
home. She reported that she had no benefit from taking Ampyra and saw no improvement at all. The patient also 
reported having headaches when she previously took Ampyra. The patient reported that she stopped taking Avonex
in Jun-2013 after having been on the medication for 17 years. She stated that Avonex was stopped because her 
WBC got dangerously low (values not provided) and there were new lesions in her cervical spine area. The patient 
reported that she was going to be resuming Ampyra because she was going to Mexico and has heat related 
symptoms from her MS. Her physician told her that Ampyra might be helpful for heat related symptoms. On 18-Jun-
2014, the patient reported that she had used Ampyra for a few months and discontinued it sometime in 2012 due to
not receiving any benefit. She stated that her timed walk had not improved. She reported that the headaches she 
had experienced were not severe and began on an unspecified date in 2012 while on Ampyra. No treatment was 
provided for the headaches, and the headaches resolved after the discontinuation of Ampyra on an unspecified 
date in 2012. The patient reported that her experience of WBC got dangerously low had been occurring for 
approximately six to seven years prior to Ampyra therapy, but had worsened on an unspecified date in Jun-2013. 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 509 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The patient reported that she had been on Avonex for 17 years and stated that this was a common side effect of 
Avonex. Avonex was discontinued in Jun-2013 and the event of WBC got dangerously low resolved soon after on 
an unspecified date. The patient clarified that she did not have a new lesion in the cervical spine area, but it was an 
old one that the physicians believe might have flared up, causing issues with her walking. This was discovered 
during a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that was performed in Jul-2013. The patient was treated with Solu-
Medrol. Additional information received on 02-Jul-2014 provided that the patient is JCV antibody positive (not PML 
positive) which she was tested in Nov-2012. This information has been incorporated into the narrative. In follow-up 
information received on 04-Aug-2014, the patient reported that the issues with walking began in Mar-2012, prior to 
starting Ampyra, and was not related to Ampyra. The issues with walking remain ongoing.  Upon additional 
information received on 26-Aug-2015, the patient reported that she discontinued Ampyra on 19-Aug-2015 due to 
the drug being ineffective.  The physician was aware of the medication discontinuance.  No further details were 
provided.
The outcomes of WBC got dangerously low and headaches were resolved. The outcome of old lesion in cervical 
spine area that might have flared up was not resolved. The outcome for the event of JCV antibody positive was 
unknown.
The action taken with Ampyra therapy due to the event of WBC got dangerously low was not applicable. Ampyra 
therapy had been withdrawn by the patient on an unspecified date in 2012 because she had no benefit from it. 
Avonex therapy was withdrawn on an unspecified date in Jun-2013 due to the events of WBC got dangerously low 
and old lesion in cervical spine area that might have flared up.  Upon additional information received on 26-Aug-
2015, therapy with Ampyra discontinued on 19-Aug-2015.
The reporter (patient) assessed the relationship between Ampyra and headaches as possible. The reporter 
(patient) assessed the relationship between Ampyra and the events of WBC got dangerously low and old lesion in 
cervical spine area that might have flared up as not related. The reporter did not assess the relationship between 
Ampyra and had no benefit from it / no detectable change in her walking and JCV antibody positive. 
Additional information received 02-Jul-2014 removed relevant history of PML positive and added event of JCV 
antibody positive onset Nov-2012. This information has been incorporated into the narrative.
Follow-up information received from an Acorda QA evaluator 15-Jul-2014 who provided the following: Upon final 
analysis by Acorda QA, the bulk tablet lot number FWVP (associated with packaging lot number FWVK) had in-
specification results for both dissolution and uniformity of dosage units and no bulk process deviation or OOS 
investigation that impacted the releasability of the lot.  Therefore, the patient complaint of no or less effect from 
Ampyra therapy is not attributable to product quality created in tablet manufacture.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 510 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Follow-up information received from the patient on 04-Aug-2014 provided event outcome and medical history.  This
information has been incorporated into the narrative.
Additional information was received from the consumer (patient) on 26-Aug-2015 provided an additional lot number 
and expiration date, Ampyra re-start and stop date and details regarding a previously reported event.  This 
information has been incorporated into the narrative.