Case number PHHY2015MX012316 is an initial literature report received on 29 Jan 2015. The author discussed 
about a case report on maraviroc failed to control progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy- associated IRIS in a
patient with advanced HIV infection. This report refers to a 55-year-old patient whose gender was unspecified. The 
patient presented to an institution with a 3-year history of HIV-1 infection and virologic failure after ART interruption 
(125697 HIV RNA copies/mL, 5.1 log10). Patient informed consent for tests performed for clinical purposes using 
routine techniques was obtained. Three months before admission, he had initiated ART consisting of abacavir, 
tenofovir, emtricitabine, and atazanavir/ ritonavir. After 1 month on ART, he suffered from fever and productive 
cough. One week before admission, he also had diarrhea and abdominal pain. On admission, he had a CD4 T cell 
count of 7 cells/uL and less than 40 HIV RNA copies/mL, and the neurological examination showed no 
abnormalities. Chest computed tomography (CT) revealed bronchiectasis and consolidation at right basal 
segments, pericardial and bilateral pleural effusion, hepatosplenomegaly, biliary lithiasis, and free fluid in the 
abdominal cavity. Cultures of bronchoalveolar lavage, blood, rectal biopsy, and feces were positive for 
Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC). MAC-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) was 
diagnosed, and oral ethambutol, clarithromycin, and azithromycin were prescribed. During hospitalization he 
developed neurological impairments including visual anosognosia (Anton-Babinski syndrome), afferent pupillary 
defect, apraxia (of gait, dressing, and eating), right hemiparesis, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and cognitive 
deterioration. The CT and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain revealed hypointensity on T1 and 
hyperintensity on T2 and FLAIR images in the subcortical white matter.The lesions had a bilateral, parietaltemporal,
occipital, and internal capsule distribution characteristic of PML. MR spectroscopy revealed reduced N-
acetylaspartate, increased lipids, and generalized cortical and subcortical atrophy. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was 
acellular; biochemistry was normal; and cultures were negative for mycobacterial, fungal, parasitic, and 
conventional bacterial agents. HIV RNA was undetectable in CSF, but JC virus DNA was 822.5 copies/mL (2.91 
log10). The patient was diagnosed with PML-associated IRIS, so maraviroc 300mg twice daily and dexamethasone 
(unknown manufacturer) 8mg every 8 hours for 3 dayswere added to ART. The patient had a rapid clinical 
deterioration and died 21 days after maraviroc initiation with a JC virusDNA load of 612.5 copies/mL (2.78 log10). 
Premortem MRI revealed lesions in subcortical white matter. Autopsy findings included zones of demyelination, 
enlarged oligodendrocytes with hyperchromatic nuclei and bizarre astrocytes, and brainstem lesions (particularly in 
medulla oblongata). Despite the fact that autopsy revealed the presence of MAC in lungs, kidney, and other organs,
there was no evidence of septic shock or multiple organic failure. Instead, brainstem demyelination was considered 
related to subsequent respiratory failure and death. Author concluded that in addition, corticosteroids were 
commonly used in the management of PML-associated IRIS, but their potentially negative effects on the JC virus-
specific response might have contributed adversely. Seriousness of the events PML-associated IRIS and clinical 
deterioration was upgraded as per the information available in the source document.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 500 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information