A neurologist spontaneously reported that a 52 year old female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple 
Sclerosis from 01 Jul 2007 to Feb 2014 was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to an unknown date for suspect PML 
characterized by cerebellar ataxia and dysarthria (onset 20 Feb 2014). The patient went to hospital on (b) (6)
to receive her TYSABRI infusion. Upon evaluation of her clinical status, her treating physician discontinued her 
TYSABRI and she was admitted to the hospital on the same day. Concomitant medication included Depakine 
Crono (valproic acid).  The event of suspect PML characterized by cerebellar ataxia and dysarthria is ongoing. The 
causality for the event of suspect PML characterized by cerebellar ataxia and dysarthria was assessed as related.
TYSABRI therapy was discontinued.
Update 24 Mar 2014: Additional information was received from the treating physician. CSF sample was collected on
(b) (6)  and tested positive on (b) (6)  for JCV DNA (450 copies per mL) from a local lab.
Update 26 Mar 2014: Brain MRI reports dated 28 Jan 2014 and(b) (6)  were received. The image dated 28 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 545 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Jan 2014 was received. Brain report dated 28 Jan 2014 compared to 27 May 2013 showed foci with high signal 
intensity in the T2 and FLAIR images in the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres, in the corpus callosum, in the
right chamber, in the stem and in the cerebellum. Some of the foci have low signal intensity in the T1 images, a 
finding indicative of chronicity. After the intravenous administration of paramagnetic contrast agent, the above foci 
do not present uptake. Compared with the previous examination, no significant difference in the extent of lesions is 
noted. The width of the ventricular system is within normal limits, with a constant display. The slight enlargement of 
the peripheral subarachnoid space was rechecked, without substantial differentiation. There was no noted space-
occupying lesion in the cerebellopontine angles, the eye sockets and the suprasellar cistern. The two internal 
carotid arteries and the basilar exhibited normal flow. Conclusion of the brain MRI included findings consistent with 
the known demyelinating disease. There is no essential difference compared with MRI dated 27 May 2013. Brain 
MRI dated (b) (6)  showed demyelinating foci, located in the deep white matter at the height of the semioval 
centres, in the supracallosal gyri, in the subcortical frontal and parietal gyri, along the optical radiation bilaterally and
in the nuclei of the chamber on the right. The above demyelinating foci are nodular in morphology and are not 
characterized by an abnormal uptake of the contrast agent, after its intravenous administration. Additionally, there 
emerge locations with abnormal magnetic signal, which are located in the left of the middle cerebellar peduncle, in 
the pons and extending towards the cerebellum on the left side, in the precentral gyrus on the left, in the upper 
frontal gyrus on the left and in the right parietal lobule, wherein said locations present on abnormal magnetic signal,
in the cortex and subcortical pars of the gyri, without any emerging abnormal uptake of the contrast agent however. 
Compared with the previous MRI of the patient (not specified but presumed 28 Jan 2014), an extension of the 
abnormal magnetic signal to the pons and the middle cerebellar peduncle ipsilaterally, and in the cerebellum, was 
noted, findings whose morphological characteristics cannot exclude the possibility of PML. The ventricular system 
of the brain and the basal cisterns displayed a normal size and morphology. Significant cortical atrophy was noted. 
After the intravenous administration of the contrast agent, no abnormal intraparenchymal thin- or pachymeningeal 
update was observed thereof. Subcutaneous nodules in the right parietal area were noted. Correlation with the 
patient's history: neuromas? Sebaceous cysts?
Update 27 Mar 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist. The patient on TYSABRI from 2007 
to Feb 2014 (a total of 68 doses of infusions) was diagnosed with MS in 1987. Previous medications included IV 
cortisone and Avonex (interferon beta-1a). The onset date of (PML) symptoms is 20 Feb 2014. Lab testing included
positive anti JCV antibodies on (b) (6)  The patient had an EDSS score of 5 prior to TYSABRI, while on 
TYSABRI and an EDSS score of 6 at the time of PML suspicion. Treatment included 8 sessions of PLEX. No 
further information was provided.
Update 03 Apr 2014: Upon internal review, this case is considered to be high suspect for PML.
Update 10 Apr 2014: After internal review of the previously provided MRI images, Biogen Idec considered to be 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 546 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
confirmed for PML based on the clinical symptoms, positive CSF and radiological evidence.
Update 04 Jun 2014: Additional information was received from a neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores were assessed as follows - on 01 Dec 2006 to be 80 
(normal activity with effort, some signs or symptoms of disease) and 4.5, on 20 Dec 2013 to be 70 (cares for self, 
unable to carry on normal activity or to do active work) and 5, and on (b) (6)  to be 40 (disabled, requires 
special care and assistance) and 6. The patient had a negative HIV result on an unspecified date. The patient 
tested positive for anti-JCV antibodies on 08 Dec 2011 and on (b) (6) . As of 04 Jun 2014, the patient is 
residing at home and has not recovered from PML. Causality for the event was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 20 Oct 2014: Information was received via a meeting abstract (M1708) from the 139th Annual Meeting of 
the American Neurological Association (ANA), Baltimore, MD. Karageorgiou CE, Giannouli E, Garifalia E, 
Athanasouli A, Kargadou A, and Tagaris G. Uncommon Infratentorial Localisation of PML in Natalizumab-Treated 
MS Patients. Annals of Neurology. 2014, 76 (S18): S109-S110.The authors reported 3 patients with an EDSS under
TYSABRI treatment of 2.5-5, TYSABRI treatment longer than 2 years, without prior immunosuppression, and only 
infratentorial localization of PML lesions. This case refers to a female patient with relapsing remitting Multiple 
Sclerosis initially treated with interferon (NOS) who received 61 infusions of TYSABRI. The patient's EDSS was 4.5 
(date unknown). The patient eventually presented with cerebellar symptoms after a period of extreme fatigue. MRI 
showed PML cerebellar lesions with quick spread in the brainstem. The patient received standard anti-PML 
treatment (NOS) with a final EDSS (date unknown) of 7-7.5. Conclusions: Rare infratentorial PML localization 
appeared after long-term TYSABRI treatment in patients without any prior immunosuppression. The disease was 
more severe and its course more indolent than other reported PML cases. Finally, the risk of PML still exists even 
three months after TYSABRI discontinuation.
Update 21 Oct 2014: The resultsof MRI performed on 26 Sep 2014 was provided by the neurologist. The MRI was 
compared with the previous MRI of the patient dated 13 Jun 2014. The demyelinating foci was rechecked, which 
are located in the deep white matter, at the height of the semioval centers and the coronae radiatae, in the 
subcortical frontal, parietal and temporal gyri, along the optical radiation bilaterally, the in cores of the chambers 
and in the cerebellum. The above demyelinating foci are characterized by an abnormal magnetic signal in the T2, 
FLAIR sequence after intravenous administration of a contrast agent. A mild update of a few millimetres is noted in 
the right lateral medulla oblongata. The above findings could be attributed to the presence of demyelinating foci, 
particularly in chronic phase, apart from the aforesaid, which is the acute phase. Additionally, a diffusely abnormal 
magnetic signal in the pons, in the middle cerebellar peduncles bilaterally, in the cerebellum, in the precentral gyrus
on the left, in the upper frontal gyrus ipsilateral, with localization mainly in the cortex and a slight expansion in the 
subcortical gyri was noted; in these anatomical regions, an abnormal magnetic signal in the T2, FLAIR sequences 
was observed. After the intravenous administration of a paramagnetic agent however, no abnormal uptake thereof 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 547 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(an uptake noted in the pons, in the left lateral and the middle cerebellar peduncle and emerging in the cross-
sectional views is attributed to artifacts) was noted. In accordance with the patient's history, the above findings and 
have been attributed to the presence of PML. Compared with the MRI dated 13 Jun 2014, there was no 
differentiation in the size of said lesions noted. A significant degree of cortical atrophy with accentuation of the 
findings in the frontal lobes was rechecked. Due to the above mentioned atrophy, a mild distension of the 
ventricular system was observed without substantial findings of periventricular oedema however. Normal imaging of
the basal cisterns of the brain. A slight submersion of the primary and secondary sulci of the cerebellum was noted 
as in cerebellar atrophy. After the intravenous administration of the contrast agent, a linear update towards the 4th 
ventricle on the left side was noted, a finding that is attributed to the presence of one deep venous angioma (DVA).
Update 22 Nov 2014: Additional information was received from a health care professional via a MS Standardized 
PML Data Collection Tool. Current treatment for MS, as a preventative, include Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) 
since(b) (6)  and IVIG. The patient had estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores were assessed as follows: on 
15 Nov 2014 to be 50 (requires considerable assistance and frequent medical care) and 6. The patient's most 
recent brain MRI was on 26 Sep 2014 (results previously provided).  The patient has not been diagnosed with IRIS. 
The patient is currently residing at home and as of 15 Oct 2014 has not recovered from PML. Causality for the 
event was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 28 Jan 2015: This case was received from the National Organisation for Medicines (agency reference 
number - 20140104) who reported that a 53 year old female patient, received TYSABRI, one dosage form, monthly,
intravenously, on an unspecified date for an unknown period of time. On 20 February 2014 the patient presented 
cerebellar ataxia and dysarthria. At the time of the report the patient hadn't recovered. The patient also received 
concomitantly DEPAKINE CHRONO 500mg twice daily, orally. No other relevant history was reported. Additional 
information was received on 15 April 2014: The patient suffers from multiple sclerosis since 1987. She received 
cortisone from 1987 to 1995 and AVONEX 3 times per week, from 1995 to 2007. On an unspecified date she 
presented seizures. She received TYSABRI from July 2007 to February 2014. The cerebellar ataxia and dysarthria 
were presented suddenly on 20 February 2014 with progressive deterioration. Cortisone was administered 
intravenously from (b) (6)  without improvement. On (b) (6)  the patient was admitted to the 
hospital. On (b) (6)  there was a JC virus positive test in the cerebrospinal fluid (previously reported as 21 
(b) (6) ). MRI on 28 January 2014: no differences compared to the MRI as of May 2013. MRI on (b) (6)  -
Pathological findings in cerebellar peduncle left that cannot exclude progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. 
MRI on (b) (6)  A small aggravation in findings in cerebellar peduncle and pons. This was considered as a
disease progression (stable clinical picture). A new MRI was scheduled for 10 days later, in April 2014. After the 
check, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy has been diagnosed. The reporter considers that the adverse 
reactions are related to the receipt of the drug. During hospitalization from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  the 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 548 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
patient underwent six plasmapheresis sessions. Cortisone 5 gr was administered intravenously and Remeron 
(mirtazapine) 30 mg once daily, Lariam (mefloquine) 250 mg (one dosage form every Sunday) from (b) (6) ,
for PML, and Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) 20 mg injection, one dosage form, once daily, instead of Tysabri from 
(b) (6)  Currently Depakine is administered at a dose of 500 mg 3 times per day from (b) (6)  Also the 
patient received Medrol 16 mg (2 pills in the morning, 1 pill at noon). At the time of receipt of additional information, 
the patient presented a small improvement in cerebellar ataxia and dysarthria. Additional information was received 
on 8 January 2015 - The physician confirmed that it was progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. The patient 
has a very slow improvement. National Pharmacovigilance Committee assessment on 21 January 2015: The 
reported adverse reaction is possibly related to TYSABRI.