AER 1534260 is a spontaneous case, received on 05/Feb/2015 from a physician and concerns a female patient of 
unknown age who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy while being treated with rituximab 
(MabThera).
The patient's medical history included marginal zone lymphoma (spleen). Concurrent conditions, concomitant 
medications or past drugs were not reported.
In Feb/2012, the patient started maintenance therapy with intravenous rituximab 3 cycles (dose, form and 
frequency was not reported) for follicular lymphoma. Later, she developed progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. In Apr/2012, the therapy with rituximab was stopped for unknown reason. In Oct/2012, a 
chronic progressive course of PML with ataxia, dysarthria and disorders of the ocular motor system and was 
diagnosed via MRT. Typical clinical symptomatic. JCV-DNA detected in Liquor in Dec/2012. No brain biopsy was 
conducted. Typical MRT results with cerebral lesions and she had no symptoms/signs of immunosuppression and 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 580 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
was HIV-negative. Later, the PML was treated with maraviroc. In 2013, she died due to progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. It was not known whether autopsy was performed or not.
The physician assessed causality of fatal progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy with rituximab as possibly 
related.
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 10/Apr/2015 and following information was added to the case: New reported
(physician). Patient details (initials and date of birth). Medical history (marginal zone lymphoma (spleen)). Suspect 
drug rituximab dosage regimen, start and stop dates. Event description. Treatment drug (maraviroc). Lab test.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML