This solicited report was initially received from a consumer (patient) in the United States on 28-Oct-2014 with 
additional information received on 19-Nov-2014. Follow-up information was received from Acorda QA on 09-Mar-
2015. A female patient with multiple sclerosis (MS), 33 years old at the time of reporting, experienced patient 
discontinued Tysabri due to JC virus, foot drag, tripping over herself, foot drop in her right foot, and MS flare 
ups/didn't know if school or stress made her MS flare up, while on and off Ampyra. 
The patient's past medical history included MS. Concomitant medications at onset included Tecfidera. Additional 
information regarding dosing, start date, and indication was not provided.
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on an unspecified date at 10 mg orally every 12 hrs for MS. Tysabri (Natalizumab)
was reported as co-suspect medication, starting on an unspecified date for an unknown indication. 
On an unspecified date, about a month ago, the patient ran out of Ampyra and experienced really bad foot drag. On
28-Oct-2014, the patient started tripping over herself. The patient also experienced a couple of MS flare ups in the 
last couple of months. The patient had been on Tysabri, and had to discontinue it due to JC virus. The patient 
recently started Tecfidera. Treatment details were not reported. No additional information was provided. Upon 
follow-up on 19-Nov-2014, the patient stated that she discontinued Ampyra on an unspecified date in Feb-2014, 
because she didn't think that it was working. However, about a month ago, she started to experience drop foot in 
her right foot again. She stated that she didn't know if school or stress made her MS flare up. The patient stated 
that restarting Ampyra had already helped her drop foot. No additional information was provided. Follow-up 
information received from Acorda QA on 09-Mar-2015 provided provided QA analysis results.
The outcome of patient discontinued Tysabri due to JC virus, foot drag, tripping over herself, and MS flare ups was 
unknown. The outcome of foot drop in her right foot was assessed as recovering/resolving as the patient stated that
restarting Ampyra has already helped her drop foot.
Ampyra action taken was not applicable initially and then patient discontinued Ampyra in Feb 2014 due to 
medication not working and then restarted it again when her right drop foot reoccurred.   Ampyra was restarted on 
an unknown date.  Tysabri dose was withdrawn.
The reporter ( patient) did not assess the relationship between Ampyra and the events.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 552 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Upon final analysis by Acorda QA, the associated bulk tablet Lot #71790 had in-specification results for both 
dissolution and uniformity of dosage units. Therefore, the patient complaint of no or less effect from Ampyra 
therapy is not attributable to product quality created in tablet manufacture.
Follow-up information received from the consumer (patient) on 19-Nov-2014 included: additional events, lot 
number. This information has been incorporated into the narrative.
Follow-up information received from Acorda QA on 09-Mar-2015 provided provided QA analysis results. This 
information has been incorporated into the narrative.