This solicited report was initially received from a consumer (patient) in the United States on 23-Aug-2014. Follow-up
information was received on 14-Oct-2014 from an Acorda QA Evaluator.  Follow-up information was received from 
the physician's office on 3-Nov-2014.  A male patient, 45 years of age at the time of this reporting, with multiple 
sclerosis (MS) reported not being able to move/lift legs , Ampyra was not very effective, a MS relapse, has not 
really been walking well and index was high enough he was at risk for the JC virus  while on Ampyra.
The patient's past medical history included MS and walking difficulty. Concomitant medications at onset included 
Vitamin B12, a muscle relaxant as needed (prn) and  Tecfidera 240 mg twice daily (bid)  since an unspecified date 
in Aug-2014. Other dosing information, start dates and indications for use were not provided. 
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on an unspecified date in Sep-2013 at 10 mg, orally, twice daily (bid) for MS and 
to improve walking in MS.  Tysabri was reported as co-suspect medication, starting on an unspecified date for MS. 
The patient reported that Ampyra was not very effective as of an unspecified date. On an unspecified date in 2013, 
within one month of starting Ampyra, the patient experienced that Ampyra made him walk too fast, in that he was 
not coordinated enough to keep up.  Upon follow-up by Acorda Medical information the patient described walking 
too fast as his 'brain would say walk and my trunk would move forward and he would go up on my toes but he could
not get my legs to move and could not lift my legs.'  The patient noted he would have fallen several times if his wife 
was not present.  The patient stopped Ampyra on an unspecified date in 2013 and all of the symptoms resolved.
On an unspecified date, in the beginning of 2014, the patient resumed Ampyra.  The same symptoms which 
occurred with the first Ampyra trial reoccurred.  The patient discontinued Ampyra after 2 weeks on an unspecified 
date.  Again, the symptoms resolved.  The patient noted that he had an MS relapse in May-2014.  The patient was 
treated with IV Solumedrol for 5 days followed by oral prednisone.  The patient's walking has reportedly not been 
well since the MS relapse. Upon follow up received from the physician's office on 3-Nov-2014, the physician's office
stated "no longer our patient." 
The outcome of Ampyra was not very effective was not applicable. The outcome of MS relapse was unknown. The 
outcome of not being able to move/lift legs was recovered/resolved. The outcome of has not really been walking 
well was not recovered/not resolved. 
Ampyra was withdrawn on an unspecified date in 2013 and again on an unspecified date in 2014. Tysabri doses 
were withdrawn on an unspecified date in Feb 2014, as the patient's index was high enough he was at risk for the 
JC virus.
The reporter (patient) assessed the relationship between Ampyra and the events as possible.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 536 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Upon final analysis by Acorda QA, Bulk Lot # 72736 (associated with the bottle packaging Lot # 13M863) had in-
specification results for both dissolution and uniformity of dosage units and no bulk process deviation or OOS 
investigation that impacted the releasability of the lot. Therefore, the patient complaint of no or less effect from 
Ampyra therapy is not attributable to product quality created in tablet manufacture.
Follow-up information received on 14-Oct-2014 provided QA analysis results. This information has been 
incorporated into the narrative.
Follow-up information received from the physician's office on 3-Nov-2014 provided a statement that the patient is 
no longer seen in their office.  This information has been incorporated into the narrative.