This spontaneous report was initially received from a consumer in the United States on 21-Nov-2012. Follow-up 
information was received from the consumer on 09-May-2014, 05-Jun-2014 and 22-Jul-2014. A female patient with 
multiple sclerosis (MS), 55 years old at the time of the report, experienced seeing white spots, memory difficulties, 
numbness in the right lower leg/bottom of legs, tingling in the right lower leg, walking difficulty, back pain while on 
Ampyra. She experienced being barely able to get out of bed, requiring a cane/then a walker when running out of 
medication. Additionally she reported a positive JC virus test, and being unable to walk while on Tysabri. She 
reported events of headaches, a two-pound weight gain, water retention, and dry mouth while taking Prednisone.
The patient's past medical history included multiple sclerosis, Nexium allergy, high blood pressure, high cholesterol,
sinus issues, shaking, and anxiety. Family history was not provided.  Concomitant medications included Albuterol, 
Allegra-D, calcium D, Celebrex 200 mg daily, diazepam 10 mg at bedtime, fish oil, gabapentin, Gilenya 0.05mg 
daily, hydrocodone 5/325 mg daily, Lexapro, multivitamin daily, Nasonex spray 50 mg daily, omeprazole 40 mg at 
bedtime, Oxycodone as needed, Oxycontin as needed, primidone as needed, Pro Air, Ritalin, soy, Symbicort, black 
cohosh, atorvastatin 20 mg daily, methylphenidate, hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg daily, fluoxetine 20 mg daily and 
alprazolam as needed. Additional dosing information, indications and start dates were not provided.
Ampyra (dalfampridine) was started at the beginning of 2012 at 10 mg orally twice daily for multiple sclerosis. At 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 575 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
follow-up of 05-Jun-2014, the patient reported additional co-suspect medications of Tysabri weekly injections from 
2012 for 3-4 months for multiple sclerosis and Prednisone taper from 01-Jun-2014 for approximately 30 days for an
unknown indication. Upon follow up received on 22-Jul-2014, the patient resumed Ampyra therapy on 12-May-
On an unspecified date, the patient experienced seeing white spots (mild), memory difficulties (moderate), 
numbness in the right lower leg and tingling in the right lower leg (moderate), walking difficulty (moderate) and back
pain (moderate to severe). On 04-May-2014, the patient ran out of Ampyra. The rest of the week, the patient 
reported that the feeling in her legs went from pretty strong to numbness in bottom of legs. She stated she could 
barely get out of bed on the morning of 09-May-2014. It was not reported whether the patient received treatment for
the events. At follow-up of 05-Jun-2014, the patient reported that, in 2012 (exact date unknown), while taking 
Ampyra and Tysabri (co-suspect), she had an adverse reaction to Tysabri and could not walk. Additionally, she was
tested for JC virus prior to starting Tysabri and the test result was positive. Therefore, she was advised that she 
was at increased risk for side effects from Tysabri. She continued Tysabri for 3-4 months, became unable to walk 
and the drug was discontinued. She provided additional events that occurred when running out of Ampyra in May-
2014. She went from walking independently to using a cane and then a walker during the time period. After 
resuming Ampyra on 12-May-2014, her symptoms improved but have not completely resolved and she is not 
walking at the same level as she was previously. Therefore, she was started on a Prednisone taper (nos) on 01-
Jun-2014 for approximately 30 days. She reports that she experiences side effects when taking steroids. At time of 
this report, she was experiencing weight gain of two pounds, water retention, dry mouth and headaches. She uses 
Fioricet as needed for headaches. Treatment for the remaining events was not provided.
The outcome of white spots, memory difficulties, numbness in right lower leg and tingling in right lower leg, walking 
difficulty and back pain were unknown. The numbness in bottom of legs and could barely get out of bed were not 
resolved. At follow-up, the patient stated her previously reported symptoms have improved but are not completely 
resolved. Outcome for the remaining events is unknown. Upon follow-up received on 22-Jul-2014, it was reported 
that the outcome of events could barely get of bed and numbness in bottom of her legs were not recovered/not 
resolved.
The patient took the last dose of Ampyra on 04-May-2014.  Ampyra action taken was not applicable due to patient 
running out of medication. At follow-up of 05-Jun-2014 and 22-Jul-2014, the patient reported she had resumed 
Ampyra on 12-May-2014.
The reporter assessed causality between Ampyra and the events of seeing white spots, memory difficulties, 
numbness in the right lower leg/bottom of legs, tingling in the right lower leg, walking difficulty, and back pain  as 
possible. The reporter did not assess causality between Ampyra and the remaining events. The reporter did not 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 576 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
assess causality between Tysabri and Prednisone and the reported events.
Follow-up information was received from the consumer on 09-May-2014 provided new events of numbness in 
bottom of legs and could barely get out of bed, added concomitant medications of fluoxetine, atorvastatin, 
hydrochlorothiazide and methylphenidate, therapy status of Ampyra and frequency of Ampyra. This information was
incorporated into the narrative.
Follow-up information from the consumer on 05-Jun-2014 provided additional events (requiring a cane/then a 
walker) when running out of medication, a positive JC test, being unable to walk on Tysabri and headaches, 2-lb 
weight gain, water retention and dry mouth on Prednisone. Additional co-suspect medications (Prednisone and 
Tysabri), medical history, concomitant medication dosing information, event information, event outcomes, causality,
and current status of Ampyra (continued) were also provided.
Upon internal review on 17-Jul-2014, the case was corrected to indicate the patient tested positive for JC virus.
Follow-up information from the consumer on 22-Jul-2014 from the consumer (patient) provided physician contact 
information, updated outcome for events of numbness in bottom of legs and could barely get out of bed, 
confirmation of Ampyra re-start date and consent to contact physician.  This information has been incorporated into 
the narrative.