This solicited report was initially received from a consumer (patient) in the United States on 11-Dec-2014. Follow-up
information was received from a consumer (patient) on 25-Feb-2015. A  58 year old female patient with multiple 
sclerosis (MS) reported being positive for JC virus antibodies while on Ampyra. The patient also experienced 
redness to her neck and rash to her arms while taking Tecfidera.
The patient's past medical history included MS, gait disturbance, osteoarthritis in knees, factor 2, and drug allergy 
to Cipro. Family medical history was not provided. Concomitant medications at event onset included since Jul-2014,
Coumadin since 2010, Alprazolam, Atenolol, Celebrex, Children's Pain And Fever, Citalopram, Gabapentin, 
Imodium, Pravastatin, Lansoprazole, Tramadol, and Tylenol. Complete dosing regimen and indication for use were 
not provided.
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on 21-Feb-2011 (previously reported as 2011) at 10 mg, orally twice daily to 
improve walking in MS.   Co-suspect medication included Tecfidera; dosing regimen and indication was not 
provided.
On an unspecified date in 2013 (reported as "about 1 year ago"), the patient was reported positive for JC virus 
antibodies. No additional information was available at the time of reporting. Upon follow-up on 25-Feb-2015, the 
patient experienced redness to her neck and rash to her arms while she was taking Tecfidera. The patient has 
been off Tecfidera for 2 1/2 weeks. The physician was aware. No further information was provided. 
The outcome of the JC virus antibodies was not resolved. The outcome of the redness and rash was unknown.
Ampyra was reported ongoing. 
The reporter (patient) assessed the relationship between Ampyra and JC virus antibodies was unknown. The 
reporter (patient) assessed the relationship between Ampyra and redness and rash not related. 
Follow-up information received from the consumer (patient) on 25-Feb-2015 provided new events of rash and 
redness and co-suspect medication Tecfidera. This information has been incorporated into the narrative.