The below information is a case summary from 05 Jul 2013 to 31 October 2013:
Case reference number 2013BI061215 is a clinical trial case report from Germany in (b) (6)
 This case involved an approximately 25 year-old 
female subject ((b) (6) ).
The subject enrolled in (b) (6)  and received her first dose of blinded study medication on 19 November 2012. 
At the time of the event, 04 July 2013, the subject had received 36 TYSABRI infusions, with the most recent dose, 
prior to event onset, administered on 03 June 2013.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 526 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Her MS was diagnosed in May 2005; she has no prior immunosuppression, but prior therapy with Avonex 
(interferon beta 1a) from February 2010 to August 2010 and Betaseron (interferon beta 1b) from May 2005 to 
February 2010. She tested serum anti-JCV antibody positive on 10 May 2013 and anti-natalizumab negative on 19 
Nov 2012. 
The subject medical history included a relapse in June 2010 where she also felt dizzy and had double vision during 
her last relapse which was why she did not pay further attention to the dizziness sooner. The dizziness had 
occurred suddenly and was constantly present but there was no infection nor other neurological symptoms present,
particularly paresis, cognitive deficits and personality changes.
In mid Jun she developed motion dependent vertigo, but this was not reported to the investigator until 3 weeks 
later. On exam on (b) (6)  (at week (b)(6) ) the investigator noted she had mild instability with her eyes closed, a 
slightly impaired tandem gait and saccadic eye movements. She was admitted to the hospital the same day. 
Neurological findings on admission did not reveal signs of cognitive deficits during conversation. During the finger-
nose test, the subject missed towards the left. Aheel-knee test was on target on both sides, dysdiadochokinesia of 
the left arm, fine motor skills were unaffected. There was an undirected tendency to fall in the Romberg standing 
test. The subject appeared to be in good general condition. 
On (b) (6)  compared to prior MRI from 14 May 2013, the certified magnetic resonance tomography (cMRT) 
showed extensive hyperintensities with spotty contrast medium absorption of the left cerebellar peduncle. In the 
cerebellar hemisphere a high grade PML suspicious lesion with a length of approximately 3.5 cm was seen. 
Contralaterally in paravermal location and in central pontine location a T2w hyperintense lesion could also be seen. 
In T1w these changes appeared hypointense, after contrast medium administration, a weak and cloudy absorption 
of contrast medium was shown. With the known initial diagnosis multiple confluent WM lesions were seen 
periventricularly and juxtracortically. Weak, punctiform contrast medium absorption frontally on the left in the white 
matter. Internal brain atrophy.Repeat MRI on (b) (6)  showed a new extensively configured florid lesion, which 
reached from the cerebellar peduncle on the left up to the left cerebellar hemisphere and also projected into the 
right cerebellar hemisphere up to paravermal location. A further florid lesion may be detected in the frontal white 
matter on the left. Moreover, multiple previously described postinflammatory MS typical lesions may be seen in the 
periventricular white matter (N>10) as well as subcortically and juxtacortically. In combination, apart from the 
unchanged MS typical configured inflammatory lesions, new extensive lesions may be seen on both sides of the 
cerebellum, on the left with weak contrast medium affinity. These most likely correspond to the correlate of a PML.
The subjects EDSS score prior to starting Tysabri was not known and an EDSS score on 25 September 2012, 
whilst the subject was on Tysabri and prior to PML was 1.5. The EDSS score at the time of PML diagnosis was 2. 
The subjects Karnofsky score prior to starting TYSABRI was not known, the Karnofsky score whilst the subject was
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 527 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
on Tysabri and prior to PML on 25 May 2012 was 90. On(b) (6)  at the time of PML diagnosis, the Karnofsky 
score was 80.
CSF for JCV PCR obtained on (b) (6)  returned negative from the (b) (6)  hospital (b) (6)  but positive from 
the (b) (6)  at 105 copies/ml. The subject was treated with intravenous Privigen (immunoglobulin) 
for 5 days, mefloquine, Remergil (mirtazapine) and Keppra (levetiracetam). Biogen Idec considers this a confirmed 
case of PML on 16 Jul 2013 based on CSF and radiologic evidence. On 17 Jul 2013, the patient was described as 
doing well with an EDSS of 2.0.
A neuropsychology assessment performed on 17 July 2013 showed remarkable reduction of the attention span, 
tonic-phasic alertness. Primary memory and (phonological) word fluency were unremarkable. The same applied to 
spontaneous speech, socialbehavior and emotion. MRT of skull native with contrast medium was performed on 19 
July 2013 compared to the previous imaging of 11 July 2013, no change in findings may be seen specifically the 
size and contrast medium behavior of the described lesions was constant. Moreover, in the course of the 
Natalizumab-association PML suspicious extensive hyperintensities may be seen from the left cerebellar peduncle 
up to the left cerebellar hemisphere as well as slight hyperintensities in the right cerebellar hemisphere, with spotty 
weak contrast medium absorption. Moreover the previously described multiple prominent, MS typical lesions, which
were mostly found in the periventricular white matter, but also in subcortical and juxtacortical position, and which 
radiated into the corpus callosum, with individual florid contrast medium absorption (frontally on the left, 
periventricularly, on the right in the cortical superior frontal gyrus, on the right in parasagittal parietal location). The 
same as previously described a global brain atrophy wasseen with accentuation in the right hemisphere and 
biparietally.
On (b) (6)  the subject was hospitalized for a scheduled follow-up MRI and lumbar puncture. The subject 
reported that her complaints had not changed since last discharge on (b) (6)  and included slurred speech 
and unsteady gait. On this hospitalization, the clinical-neurological examination detected dysarthria as well as 
unsteady gait, no focal-neurological deficit beyond that.  A contrast medium-supported MRI of the skull performed 
on (b) (6)  showed progression of the cerebellar lesion and Gd-enhancment of the lesion.  The MRI 
detected infratentorial and cerebellar lesions that were clearly progressive compared to (b) (6)  in regard to the 
size and also the barrier disorder. A florid inflammatory etiology in terms of IRIS was also considered in addition to 
PML due to atypically strong contrast medium absorption corresponding to the chronological progression. The 
subject was treated with intravenous Privigen (IVIG) (immunoglobulins) for 3 days.  A lumbar puncture performed 
on (b) (6)  and returned positive at 60 copies/mL. 
A follow-up MRI on (b) (6)  detected a progressive barrier disorder of the infratentorial lesions on both 
cerebellar sides (particularly right cerebellar) with altogether unchanged supra- and infratentorial lesions. The 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 528 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
lumen of the fourth ventricle was currently decreased in size. Logopedic findings on(b) (6)  showed 
dysarthria, dysphonia, no dysphagia.  The subject was treated with intravenous Privigen (immunoglobulins, IVIG, 20
g) again for 5 days as well as parallel high-dose methylprednisolone therapy due to the differential diagnostic 
consideration of IRIS.  The clinical picture subsided somewhat during this treatment, the patient improved and there
was a reduction of Gd-enhancing on follow-up. Another MRI of the skull (date not provided) detected unchanged 
gliotic changes, however, a decrease in the contrast medium-absorbing lesions.  Also, during this hospitalization, 
the CRP that was elevated in the meantime subsided into the normal range.     The hepatic transaminases were 
also elevated, therefore a re-check has been requested. And hypopotassemia (hypokalemia) that was observed in 
the meantime subsided into the normal range after administration of potassium.  On (b) (6)  the subject 
was discharged with diagnoses of IRIS, natalizumab-associated PML, MS of episodic type, and normochromic, 
normocytic anemia.      At the time of this report, the treatment with Keppra (levetiracetam) mirtazapine and 
mefloquine were continued.  An appointment was made for an outpatient follow-up examination for the subject for a
clinical check-up for chronic inflammatory central nervous system disorders on 06 September 2013. 
Update 06 Feb 2014: Additional information received from a physician at the study site via an MS Standardized 
PML Data Collection Tool reported that the subject was alive, residing at home, and on Gilenya (fingolimod)(start 
date unknown) for MS therapy. A lumbar puncture performed on (b) (6)  was positive for CSF JCV DNA at 
60 copies per mL. The subject was diagnosed with IRIS, determined by clinical signs and MRI findings. Cerebellar 
clinical signs included ataxic gait and speech symptoms included dysarthria with an onset date of (b) (6) .
Treatment included IVIG (Privigen) 20 g IV daily for eight days in (b) (6)  methylprednisolone 1000 mg IV 
daily for five days in (b) (6)  methylprednisolone oral taper daily from August 2013 to 09 September  2013, 
and methylprednisolone 1000 mg IV daily from 23 September to 27 September 2013. The physician reported that 
after a second steroid treatment in September 2013, the subject experienced a further improvement of gait, 
speech, and dexterity. The subjects last assessment in the clinic was on 26 November 2013 and revealed 
cerebellar signs (ataxic gait, ataxic pointing tests, dysdiadochokinesia), but otherwise normal motor and sensory 
functions, normal cranial nerve function, no dysarthria and no evidence of severe cognitive deficits. She was able to
perform activities of daily living. The physician assessed the subjects estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores on 26 
November 2013 to be 80 (normal activity with effort; some signs or symptoms of disease) and 2.0. A lumbar 
puncture was performed on 26 November 2013 with results reported as negative for CSF JCV DNA. An MRI was 
performed on 29 November 2013 (results not provided). The outcomes for PML and IRIS were unknown. Causality 
for the events were assessed as related to TYSABRI. The current clinical status of the subject was unknown 
because the subject was no longer been treated by the physician.
Update 27 February 2014: Additional information received from the investigator reported that at the last contact with
the subject on 26 November 2013, there was a further improvement of gait, speech and dexterity after a second 
steroid treatment in September 2013. The final outcome and resolution date could not be provided because the 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 529 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
subject didn't receive treatment from the physician any more. It was reported that IRIS, elevated hepatic 
transaminases and hypopotassemia were reported in electronic case report form (eCRF). IRIS was diagnosed 
during a follow up evaluation of PML. The subject was not hospitalized because of the IRIS. As the IRIS was due to 
the withdrawn of TYSABRI, IRIS was assessed as related to investigational product.
Update 06 March 2014: Additional information received from the neurologist via a Biogen Idec employee (medical 
science liaison) reported that the subject is being seen by the neurologist (private practice) approximately every 2 
weeks. No JC-virus had been detected in subsequent CSF testing (dates not provided). The patient is further 
improving on physiotherapy. The previously described symptoms are further resolving (not fully resolved at the 
timeof reporting). Current EDSS is 3 - 3.5. The patient is on Gilenya (start date not provided).
Update 24 March 2014: Additional information received from the investigator reported that the MRI performed on 28
October 2013 showed an improvement with less FLAIR/T2-lesions and without any Gd-enhancing lesions.
Update 17 April 2014: Additional information received from the investigator reported that the MRI performed on 28 
October 2013 showed an improvement in the findings was seen in comparison to the external prior examination 
with the known FLAIRw/T2w hypertintense white matter alterations cerebellar emphasized with status post 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. With known first diagnosis, the demyelization foci were able to be 
defined paraventricularly in an identical configuration, currently no barrier disturbance detectable any longer.
Update 23 July and 24 July 2014: Additional information was received from a neurologist via a MS Standardized 
PML Data Collection Tool. The subject is alive and residing at home. The neurologist reported that the subject is 
doing pretty well, without any major losses of her quality of life. Gilenya was tried as MS treatment. However, she 
presented with gastrointestinal problems, especially vomiting. Similar complaints (GI problems and vomiting) had 
been already observed previously. Aubagio (teriflunomide) was initiated on 11 July 2014 as MS therapy (noted 
indication as preventative, clinical relapse, and radiological evidence of return of MS). On (b) (6)  the 
neurologist assessed the subject's estimated Karnofsky score to be 55 (requires considerable assistance and 
frequent medical care - requires occasional assistance, but is able to care for most of her personal needs). EDSS 
was assessed as 5 on 08 July 2014. A brain MRI was performed on 02 Jul 2014 (results not provided). The subject 
has recovered from PML and IRIS. Causality for the events was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 01 Sep 2014: Report received from the literature: Lauda, F. Fangerau, T. Javaheripour-Otto, K., et al.
Natalizumab-associated cerebellar progressive multifocal leucencephalopathy: A case report on how to slow down 
IRIS. 87th Annual Meeting of the Deutsche Gesellschaft fr Neurologie (DGN), 40. Jahrestagung der Gesellschaft fr 
Neuropdiatrie (GNP), 50. Jahrestagung der Deutsche Gesellschaft fr Neuropathologie und Neuroanatomie 
(DGNN).  The article presented a case report of a 25-year old female patient with multiple sclerosis (MS) and 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 530 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
cerebellar natalizumab-associated PML. The patient was diagnosed with MS in May 2005 and was treated with 
interferon-beta for 5 years (05/2005 until 08/2010). Because of continued clinical disease activity under interferon-
beta the immunotherapy was escalated to natalizumab (total of 32 infusions between 2010 and 2013). The patient 
never received any immunosuppressant drugs prior to natalizumab therapy. During a routine follow-up visit the 
patient reported mild vertigo for 3 weeks. Clinical examination showed mild left-sided cerebellar syndrome and 
paresis of the right hand (EDSS 2.0). Natalizumab treatment was immediately stopped. Cranial MRI was highly 
suggestive for cerebellar PML confirmed by detection of JCV-DNA (105 copies/ml) in CSF. Because the symptoms 
were only mild and a life-threatening infratentorial IRIS was feared, PLEX was not considered. The patient was 
instead treated with intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIGs) for 5 days with the intention to limit the inflammatory 
activity and to enable a softer elimination of natalizumab. After the first IVIGs-cycle, a subtle clinical deterioration 
and a corresponding progression of the cerebellar lesion and Gd-enhancement occurred. The patient was treated 
with 2 additional cycles of IVIGs. Because T1w-hyperintensity as first radiological signs of IRIS was seen (8 weeks 
after diagnosis of PML), additional 1g methylprednisolone for 5 days was administered. Two weeks later, the 
maximum of symptoms was documented (EDSS 3.5) and interpreted as clinical manifestation ofIRIS. JCV-DNA 
decreased to 60 copies/ml CSF. Following another pulse of i.v. steroids for 5 days clinical exam showed a mild 
bilateral cerebellar syndrome (EDSS 2.0). Corresponding MRI showed a slight regression of the T2w-hyperintensity
and no Gd-enhancement. At follow-up visit (20 weeks after diagnosis of PML) JCV-DNA was no more detectable in 
CSF. Notably, CSF analysis demonstrated a marked increase of intrathecal IgG-synthesis while PML and IRIS 
were likely to be resolved clinically and radiologically.
Update 03 September 2014: Additional information received from the investigator reported that the information that 
the most recent brain MRI was done on 29 November 2013 was a mistake. The most recent MRI report available 
was from 28 October 2013.
Update 25 September 2014: Additional information received from the investigator reported that the stop date for the
event of Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was updated to 26 November 2013.
Update 09 Oct 2014: During data reconciliation, the investigator did not consider the event of IRIS to be a serious 
adverse event. The event of IRIS is now downgraded to non-serious.
Update 23 Jan 2015: A report was received via the literature: Villar LM, Costa-Frossard L, Masterman T, Fernandez
O, Montalban X, Casanova B, et al. Lipid-specific IgM bands in CSF associated with a reduced risk of developing 
PML during treatment with natalizumab. Ann Neurol. 2015 Jan 7. doi: 10.1002/ana.24345. [Epub ahead of print]. 
The authors explored whether the presence of lipid-specific IgM oligoclonal bands in CSF (IgM bands), a 
recognized marker of highly inflammatory MS, may identify individuals better able to counteract the potential 
immunosuppressive effect of TYSABRI and hence be associated with a reduced risk of developing PML. Twenty 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 531 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
four MS patients who developed PML and 343 patients who did not suffer this opportunistic infection during 
TYSABRI treatment were studied. All patients diagnosed with PML showed MRI findings suggestive of PML and a 
positive ultrasensitive quantitative PCR for JC virus in CSF. Twenty of them also showed progressive symptoms 
characteristic of PML. Patients were treated with TYSABRI for 2.77 years (SD +/- 1.58 years). Twenty two out of 
twenty four patients experienced immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS). Results: IgM bands 
independently associated with decreased PML risk (OR = 45.9, 95% CI: 5.9-339.3, p<0.0001) in patients treated 
with TYSABRI. They also associated with significantly higher CSF CD4, CD8 and B cell numbers. Patients positive 
for IgM bands and anti JC antibodies had similar level of reduced PML risk than those anti JC negative (OR = 1.55, 
95% CI: 0.09-25.2, p=1.0). The higher risk was observed in patients positive for anti JC antibodies and negative for 
IgM bands (19% of the total cohort, OR=59.71, CI: 13.6-262.2). Interpretation: The presence of IgM bands reflects 
a process which may diminish the risk of PML by counteracting the excess of immunosuppression that may occur 
during TYSABRI therapy. This case refers to a female patient who experienced PML (onset unknown) and IRIS 
(onset unknown). No further patient specific information was provided.