This solicited non-serious report was initially received from a consumer (patient's mother) in the United States on 
13-Aug-2014. Follow-up information received from the consumer (patient) on 28-Aug-2014.   Follow-up information 
was received from a family nurse practitioner on 08-Sep-2014 and from the consumer on 11-Sep-2014. Additional 
follow-up information was received from the family nurse practitioner on 29-Sep-2014.  Additional follow-up 
information was received from a consumer (patient's (b) (6) ) on 18-Dec-2014.  A 46 year old male patient, with 
multiple sclerosis (MS) experienced liver enzyme elevation, positive for John Cunningham (JC) virus, red face, 
headache and a fall while on Ampyra. 
The patient's past medical history included MS, gait disturbance, an allergy to Penicillin/Amoxicillin, sleep apnea, 
high blood pressure, increased cholesterol, anxiety, depression, constipation, weakness, incontinence, sleep 
problems/trouble sleeping, and acute/chronic alcohol intake (stopped 3 months ago). The patient had normal renal 
function prior to Ampyra therapy. The patient did not have any risk factors of right sided heart failure, left heart 
failure, congestive heart failure, or hypotensive episode. The patient did not have any history of pancreatitis, 
gallbladder disease, NSAID use, IV drug use, HIV, cholelithiasis, Gilbert's disease, cirrhosis, hepatic failure, 
hepatitis, drug induced toxicity/exposure, tattoos, ingestion of wild mushrooms, recent anesthesia/surgery, was not 
prone to bleeding/bruising, no recent consumption of acetaminophen/paracetamol (especially with alcohol intake). 
There was no recent exposure to endemic hepatic pathogens, site of infection or sepsis, or any evidence of 
respiratory insufficiency. Family medical history included: depression (sister); no family history of liver disease. 
Concomitant medications at the time of onset included candersartan/HCTZ 16-12.5 mg, one dosage form orally 
daily, atorvastatin 20 mg orally daily, lorazepam 0.5 mg orally as needed, tamsulosin 0.4 mg, aspirin 81 mg orally 
daily, evening primrose oil orally daily, potassium/magnesium combination of vitamin and mineral supplement, 
vitamin D3, 4000 IU orally daily, vitamin B1 one dosage form orally daily, Cetaphil emollient topically daily, omega 3 
fish oil, one capsule orally twice daily, folic acid 1 mg orally daily, therapeutic multivitamin orally daily, Betaseron, 
Lipitor 10 mg, Potassium 10 mEq, Atacand 16 mg, Vitamin D 1000 IU, Psyllium Husk, and Calcium Magnesium; 
additional dosing information, start dates and indications were not provided. 
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on an unspecified date in Aug-2012 at 10 mg, orally twice daily for MS and to 
improve walking in MS.
The patient's mother reported, on an unspecified date in 2014 (reported as a month ago), the patient tested positive
for the JC virus, the patient also has a 30 year history of liver enzyme elevation. No additional information was 
available at the time of reporting. 
Upon follow-up on 28-Aug-2014 from the patient, the patient stated he was feeling more depressed, he stated "I 
have trouble sleeping". The patient also stated that he has a history of trouble sleeping on and off and has 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 519 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
remained unchanged since starting Ampyra. He further stated that his sister is clinically depressed, "I am not 
depressed" and then stated not being able to walk anymore is somewhat depressing and having to move back with 
parents so they can be his care takers was depressing. He noted that he moved back in with his parents about 5 
years ago and he stated that not having a girlfriend or a wife is depressing. 
Upon follow-up on 08-Sep-2014, the nurse practitioner reported the patient has had an increase in liver enzymes 
during Ampyra therapy. On 04-Aug-2014, liver enzymes included alanine aminotransferase (ALT) 115 (units not 
provided) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) 59 (units not provided). The patient had not recovered from the 
elevated liver enzymes. Treatment information was not reported. No additional information was provided. 
On 11-Sep-2014 the patient clarified "not being able to walk" stating he did not notice that he was walking better, 
although he was timed before and after starting Ampyra and was walking better. He also stated that he did not have
an adverse reaction with Ampyra. 
Upon follow-up on 29-Sep-2014, the nurse practitioner reported that the patient's liver enzymes had increased at 
other times during Ampyra therapy as well. However, she stated that the patient was also using ETOH and evening 
primrose oil which increase liver function tests (LFTs). The patient did not experience any fatigue, malaise, nausea,
anorexia, vomiting, abdominal right upper quadrant pain, fever, jaundice, pruritus, dyspnoea, hypotension, 
confusion, asterixis, or bleeding/bruising tendency. On 30-Jun-2014, the patient tested positive for John 
Cunningham (JC) virus. Additional lab tests on the same day included creatinine 0.67 (low; units and normal range 
not provided), glomerular filtration rate (GFR) 155 (units and normal range not provided). On 04-Aug-2014, the 
patient's complete blood count (CBC) was within normal limits, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) 12, creatinine 0.65 (low), 
and GFR 132. Diagnostic tests including abdominal ultrasound, computed tomography (CT) scan, endoscopic 
retrograde cholangio-pancreatography (ERCP), liver biopsy, abdominal x-ray were not performed. The nurse 
practitioner reported the patient was recovering from elevated liver enzymes; however outcome of positive for JC 
virus was unknown. Treatment was reported as N/A. No additional information was provided.  Upon follow-up 
received on 18-Dec-2014, the patient's mother reported that on an unspecified date, the patient's temperature was 
97.2 and the patient experienced a red face and headache.  The(b) (6)  also stated that the patient fell on 17-Dec-
The outcome of positive for JC virus, red face, headache, and fall was unknown. The outcome for liver enzyme 
elevation was recovering/resolving. 
No action was taken with Ampyra.
The reporter (patient's (b) (6) ) did not provide a causality statement for the events. The patient reported that he did
not have an adverse reaction with Ampyra. The nurse practitioner assessed the relationship between Ampyra and 
the events (positive for JC virus, liver enzyme elevation) as unlikely related. 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 520 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Follow-up information received from the consumer (patient) on 28-Aug-2014 and 11-Sep-2014 provided 
concomitant medications, medical history, family history, feeling depressed about current situation (but is not 
depressed), causality, and start date, indication and action taken with Ampyra. This information has been 
incorporated into the narrative.
Follow-up information received from the family nurse practitioner on 08-Sep-2014 included: patient age was 
reported, labs were reported (liver enzymes), event start date was provided (liver enzyme elevation), concomitant 
medication updated (frequency provided for evening primrose oil), medical history updated (patient had normal 
renal function prior to Ampyra), outcome and causality were provided for elevated liver enzymes. This information 
has been incorporated into the narrative.
Follow-up information received from the family nurse practitioner on 29-Sep-2014 included: medical history, 
concomitant medications, lab tests, event start date (positive for JC virus), event outcome (liver enzyme elevation), 
and causality. This information has been incorporated into the narrative.
Follow-up information received from the patient's mother on 18-Dec-2014 provided: additional concomitant 
medications, additional allergy (Amoxicillin), and additional events.  This information has been incorporated into the 
narrative.
Upon internal review on 12-JAN-2015 the event liver enzyme elevation was coded from liver enzyme abnormal to 
hepatic enzyme increased.