This spontaneous report was initially received from a healthcare provider (neurologist) in the United States via 
Acorda affiliate Biogen (2013BI035412) on 28-Jun-2013. Follow-up information was received from a healthcare 
provider (physician) on 16-Aug-2013, and additional information was received from a healthcare provider (medical 
secretary) on 23-Aug-2013.  A 64 year old female patient with multiple sclerosis (MS) was hospitalized for a 
generalized seizure while on Ampyra.
The patient's past medical history included MS (secondary progression with probably subcortial dementia), gait 
disturbance, hypertension, osteoarthritis (with chronic pain in hips and knees), TMJ, carpal tunnel, sleep apnea, 
nightmares, coronary artery disease, cardiac catherization/angioplasty with stent placement-2003, carotid stenosis, 
angina, tremors, walker user, migraines (muscle contraction type headaches), hyperlipidemia, ataxia, impaired 
memory due to MS, depression, smoking (quit 1999), occasional social drinker, Drug  allergies: "medication in the 
form of cocaine". The patient had no prior seizure history, and no prior renal or hepatic insufficiency. Family history 
included cerebrovascular disease, cancer and stroke (family member(s) not specified). Historical drug use: Gilenya 
and Tysabri. Family history included cerebrovascular disease, cancer and stroke (family member(s) not specified). 
Concomitant medications included amlodipine (5mg daily), atenolol (25mg bid), baclofen (20mg tid), Plavix, (75mg 
daily) Aricept (5mg qd), iron( 1 tablet daily), Prozac (20mg qd), Avonex (one a week for MS), Imdur (60mg qd), 
naproxen sodium (375mg qd), nitroglycerin, Prilosec (40mg qd)Evista (60mg qd), Aspir EC (81mg qd) ,simvastatin 
(20mg qd), and temazepam (30 mg at bedtime).  Additional dosing information, start dates and indications were not
provided.
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on an unspecified date in Jun-2010 at 10 mg po bid to improve walking/mobility.
A neurologist reported that on (b) (6)  the patient experienced a generalized seizure. While the patient was in 
the emergency room (ER) the patient had another seizure. Therefore, the neurologist  reported that the seizure was
confirmed by the ER staff.  The patient was admitted and treated with 1 gram of Dilantin. Hospital medical records 
provided that the patient had no history of a headache, nausea or vomiting. Within 24 hours after the seizure the 
patient underwent an EEG.  The EEG findings were reported as normal by the neurologist.  The patient also had a 
brain CT scan on (b) (6) , which showed age-related atrophy without any infarction or any bleed. The 
physician's neurology office visit notes, dated 11-Jun-2013, revealed that the seizure was assessed as probably 
related to Ampyra use. The patient was treated with Dilantin 300 mg twice a day, but at that time of the notes the 
patient remained taking Dilantin 200 mg twice a day (therapy dates not specified).  The physician noted that lab 
data had shown mild fluctuation of the blood sugars (158 mg/dL on (b) (6)  128 mg/dL (b) (6) 3 while 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 569 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
hospitalized), and serum calcium was borderline low (8.4 mg/dL while hospitalized (b) (6) ).  Additional results
for blood sugars and calcium not provided.  The physician and the medical secretary also reported that the patient 
had MS progression. The medical secretary reported the progression had gotten worse over the last 2 years.  On 
(b) (6)  an MRI was performed which showed changes consistent with her MS.  The medical secretary stated 
that the patient's depression had worsened due to the MS progression. Also documented in the physician's notes 
was that the patient was JC positive.  The medical secretary could not provide the onset date.
The seizures had resolved with treatment. Patient was discharged on (b) (6)
Medical records dated 11-Jun-2013 document that Ampyra was an "active" medication. 
The reporting physician reported that Ampyra was probably related to the event seizure. The causality for the 
remaining events was not provided. 
Follow-up received on 16-Aug--2013 and 23-Aug-2013 provided  medical history, family history, concomitant 
medication, admission date,discharge date, and laboratory reports.
Upon internal review on 28-Mar-2014, patient age in the narrative and company comment was amended to 64 
years, reporter causality statement was amended, and Aspir EC was added as a concomitant medication.