Based on additional information received on 24-Mar-2015, reporter causality was updated to not related.
Based on the additional information received on 30-Jan-2015, the case was upgraded to serious due to addition of 
event of tested JC virus positive: important medical event
Initial information regarding this solicited serious case from United States was received on 17-Oct-2014 from 
consumer via patient support program. 
This case concerns a 42 year old female patient (ID: (b) (6) ) whose ms was progressing fast/exacerbations or
flare and experienced visual issues in each eye with left eye being worse/"eyesight" is affected, visual issues in 
each eye with left eye being worse/"eyesight" is affected/vision issues, balance issues, more difficult to work, 
Aubagio is not working (lack of drug effect) an unspecified time after, tested JC virus positive (latency: few days); 
blurred and double vision (latency period: 2 months) after commencing treatment with teriflunomide (aubagio). 
Medical history: transverse myelitis. The patient was allergic to codeine and iodine. Concomitant medications 
included estradiol for hormone replacing; cynocobalamine (Vitamin B12), (Biotin) as hormones; gabapentin 
(Neurontin) and baclofen for back pain 
On 03-Oct-2014, the patient started treatment with oral teriflunomide at dose of 14 mg daily (form, lot number, 
expiration date: unknown) for multiple sclerosis. Later on after unspecified time frame on an unknown date, the 
patient's ms was progressing fast/exacerbations or flare ups. Patient has history of experiencing flare ups every 
other week previously, which starts with headache (lasts approx 1-2 days), pain in shoulders and working it's way 
down to mid back and left arm, numbness in hands and could not function. Patient feels the frequency of flare ups 
have slowed down since being on Aubagio.  Patient experienced flare up approximately one week ago with same 
symptoms listed above along with heartburn - improved approximately 2 days after starting therapy, experienced 
upset stomach was resolved.   Patient has visual issues in each eye with left eye being worse.  Patient has 
appointment on 11/20/2014 for reevaluation.  Patient stated that she was diagnosed with transverse Myelitis after 
she experienced left sided numbness, "paralyzed" on left side in 2008 (medical history)- She stated that in 2008 she
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 584 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
had "lesion on her spine at C6 - C7 (medical history). She continued to have minor exacerbations after episode in 
2008 but would take her medication and would be fine.  She stated that in 2010 she began to have a "horrible 
headache, shoulder pain and treated with ENT, Orthopedic Specialist, neurologist and diagnosed with MS.  Her 
MRI showed no brain lesions but she did have lesions on spine and spinal tab was abnormal for "16 different test 
completed on spinal tab fluid". Patient stated that she continues to have "exacerbations and she feels she was 
accelerating fast". Her HCP wanted to give teriflunomide 3 more months to work.  Patient had follow-up 
appointment in Jan-2015 with her neurologist but if no change HCP mentioned she was going to change her 
teriflunomide to infusion or injections.  Patient stated that her "eyesight" was affected but she saw Opthalmologist 
and NeuroOpthalmologist who stated her eye issues were related to her MS and nothing they could do for her. She 
stated that she continues to have joint pain in hips, shoulders and weakness in left side at times too. She stated 
that the medication she takes for her symptoms was that "her body was not responding to them" (unspecified 
corrective medication).  Patient stated that she had history of hysterectomy (medical history).  Patient stated that 
she likes the "simpleness of teriflunomide - pill, taken once per day".
It was reported that vision issues which had not improved.  Balance issues and stated "without any warning, she 
just went down. It was more difficult to work.  90% of the time experienced pain in back and took pain med only in 
extreme situations. He felt so far teriflunomide was not working (lack of drug effect).  Due to flare up in 6/2014, she 
took steroid pack.  She diagnosed 9/5/2014. She saw HCP 3 weeks ago and was prescribed steroid pack.  She had
taken steroid pack before but this time on 3rd day, 15 min after taking, experienced stomach pain and 
nausea/vomiting.  HCP stopped the med, then prescribed another med for pt.  After taking it, experienced face 
burning and blisters with HCP stopping that med.  During the visit with HCP 3 weeks ago had blood work completed
with HCP advising pt's PML high (she thought it was the name), and thus wanted her to stay on teriflunomide a little
longer. In December 2014 (latency: few day), she tested JC virus positive. She has not been diagnosed with PML. 
No further information was provided. The patient reported that flare-ups seemed to worsen and came more often. 
Since an unknown date, the patient's vision worsened and she experienced blurred and double vision. The patient 
continued to have back pain and stiff neck. On 13-Mar-2015, the therapy with teriflunomide was stopped. The 
patient reported that she stopped teriflunomide as it was not effective. The patient reported MS continued to 
progress and needed something stronger. The patient was prescribed new medication which was injection stating 
"she was put on horrible medication which made her extremely sick." The patient was off teriflunomide for 
approximately two weeks then started the injection therapy. The patient had 30 more day of the injection and if not 
effective may possibly be prescribed something else.
Action taken: No action taken
Event outcome: recovering/ resolving for the event of ms is progressing fast/exacerbations or flare ups
Unknown for the event of tested JC virus positive, balance issues, more difficult to work.
Not recovered for visual issues in each eye with left eye being worse/"eyesight" is affected/vision issues, vision 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 585 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
worsened, blurred and double vision. 
Reporter causality assessment: Not associated for visual issues in each eye with left eye being worse/"eyesight" is 
affected/vision issues and not reported for rest of the events.
Company causality: Not Associated for the event of ms is progressing fast/exacerbations or flare ups.
Associated for rest of the events.
Seriousness of tested JC virus positive and ms is progressing fast/exacerbations or flare ups/flare ups seemed to 
worsen and come more often: important medical event
Additional information received on 31-Oct-2014:
Events and age were added. The event outcome was updated. The text was amended accordingly.
Additional information was received on 17-Dec-2014 from the patient to a nurse in MS one to one patient support 
program:
-Updated event verbatim for the event of vision abnormal from 'visual issues in each eye with left eye being worse' 
to 'visual issues in each eye with left eye being worse/"eyesight" is affected'
-Updated patient's medical history
-Updated lab data
-Updated the clinical course
-Text amended accordingly
Additional information was received on 30-Jan-2015 from the patient to a nurse in MS one to one patient support 
program:
Updated therapy start date, added corrective for pain in back, events added- JC virus infection, updated verbatim of
vision abnormal, added events including balance disorder, impaired work ability, lack of drug effect. Case upgraded
to serious as additional event of tested JC virus positive captured: important medical event
Additional follow-up information was received on 24-Mar-2015:
As reported event terms for ms exacerbation, balance disorder and lack of drug effect were updated, additional 
events of - blurred and double vision were reported, outcome updated for pain in back, therapy dates updated, 
concomitant medications added, medical history updated.
Additional follow-up information was received on 10-Jul-2015:
Therapy end date was updated from 03-Mar-2015 to 13-Mar-2015. Upon internal review, the previously reported 
non-serious event of ms is progressing fast/exacerbations or flare ups/flare ups seemed to worsen and come more 
often was re-assessed as serious (seriousness criteria: important medical event). Information related to MS and 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 586 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
injection therapy was added.