PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY
(USA) Initial information was received on 09Apr2014 from a contract pharmacy and from a prescriber's office for a 
63 year-old male patient who received Revlimid for the treatment of lymphomas NEC. Based on information 
provided earlier by the prescriber, the patient was dispensed Revlimid 15 mg by mouth once daily from May2010, 
25 mg once daily from Jun2010 and then 25 mg once daily for 21 days from 20Mar2014 to 08Apr2014. The lot 
number was A0203B and expiration date was unknown. Relevant medical history was not provided. Concomitant 
medications were unknown. 
On 08Apr2014 the patient experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Relevant laboratory test 
results, diagnostic test results and treatment details for the events were not provided. Revlimid therapy was 
permanently discontinued due to the event. The outcome for the event was not recovered. The causal relationship 
of the event to Revlimid was suspected. 
Additional information will be requested from the prescriber. 
Additional information was received on 29Apr2014 from the prescriber with medical records in response to 
Celgene's follow up request. The patient did not received stem cell transplant. Prior history of viral infection included
hepatitis C. Prior chemotherapy for lymphoma included R-CHOP (Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, 
Vincristine and Prednisone). Concomitant medication included Rituxan. 
It was confirmed that the patient was diagnosed with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Symptoms for 
the patient included hand tremor, memory difficulty with visual symptoms. At the time of the event, the patient was 
on Revlimid and Rituxan for relapsed DLBCL (diffused large B cell lymphoma). The MRI of head with or without 
contrast on 05Feb2014 and 12Mar2014 was suspected for recurrent NHL (non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma), brain 
demonstrated normal volume and contour, there was no evidence of acute ischemia on the diffusion weighted 
sequence, there were a few focal T2 hyperintensities but those were nonspecific, ventricles were in normal size, no 
extra axial fluid was identified, there was subtle linear enhancement seen within the right and left frontal lobe while 
matter The enhancement appears to correspond to a expected location of perivascular species, which can be seen 
with CNS lymphoma. The brain biopsy of right frontal brain and additional right frontal brain tumor-deep colon 
performed on 01Apr2014 revealed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. The microscopic examination of 
biopsy showed a variety of inflammatory changes and reactive changes and no lymphoma was identified by 
morphology. The biopsy results were also referred to the neuropathology of a university and their evaluation 
including immunohistochemistry was diagnostic of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. CSF analysis and 
serum antibodies testing were not performed. Revlimid was permanently discontinued. Outcome for the event was 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 630 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
still ongoing at the time of this report. 
The prescriber considered the event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy life threatening. The causality 
assessment to Revlimid therapy was reported as unknown (however, previously it was reported as suspected by 
the prescriber).
Additional information was received on 05/Feb/2015 from the prescriber's office in response to a Celgene request 
for follow-up information regarding this patient.
According to this follow up report the patient had a R-CHOP therapeutic regime from 08/Jun/2007 to 31/Aug/2007 
every 21 days. Rituximab was also indicated administered from 04/Jun/2010 to 21/Mar/2014 weekly every 6 
months. Rituximab was discontinued once biopsy confirmed multifocal leukoencephalopathy on 01/Apr/2014. Last 
Rituximab does was on 21/Mar/2014. No further details were provided.