AER 1536139 is a spontaneous case, received on 09/Feb/2015 from a physician via company representative via
Agenzia Italiana del Farmaco (AIFA : health authority, reference number. 299105), Italy and concerns about a 70 
year old female patient who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and skin rash while being 
treated with rituximab (MabThera).
Concomitant medications included epirubicin, vincristine, prednisone, fludarabine phosphate and 
cyclophosphamide. Past drug included doxorubicine and radiation. No medical history or concurrent conditions 
were reported. 
In Apr/1995, IV stage follicular lymphoma CD20+ was diagnosed. The lymphoma was in remission after 6 CHOP 
cycles. In 1996 the patient experienced lymph nodes progression and she received other 3 cycles of 
cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone and doxorubicine (CHOP) + radiotherapy at underarm lymph nodes and 
cervical lymph nodes. decision was made considering her poor general condition and the need for action on active 
disease.  Due to development of aggressive behavior, she was hospitalized in the neurologic department of the 
hospital to perform further examinations.  A brain nuclear magnetic resonance was performed with diagnosis of 
suspected parenchymal disorder due to hypoxic ischaemia and possibly due also to the effects of suspect drug on 
the posterior area of brain. No brain MRI was done. It was unknown if brain biopsy was done. Test of liquor 
(cerebrospinal fluid) was done and JC virus test was positive.  On 08/Jan/2008 it was started intravenous rituximab 
(concentrate for solution for intravenous infusion) therapy for non hodgkin lymphoma, follicular lymphoma CD20+ 
and myelophthisis and on the same day, she developed skin rash and rituximab was discontinued due to skin rash 
during the first hours of infusion. The therapy continued only with cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone (6 
cycles) with partial recovery. In Jul/2008 the disease was worsening and the patient received fludarabine and 
cyclophosphamide for 2 cycles but new lymph nodes and spleen progressions were detected. The patient 
experienced persistent thrombocytopenia. A bone marrow biopsy was performed and it was detected the 
persistence of bone marrow infiltration and bone marrow hypoplasia (complication of previous immunosuppressive 
and/or chemotherapy). On (b) (6)  the patient restarted to receive rituximab (monotherapy), administered 
during hospitalization with slow infusion (approximately 12 hours), without adverse events or intolerance and on the 
same day  it was diagnosed that she developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. On 11/May/2009, the 
patient went to the hospital to receive the treatment but neurological symptoms were detected and the 
administration of rituximab was discontinued. 
At the time of the report, the outcome of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and skin rash was not 
reported.
The physician did not provide the causal relationship of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy with rituximab.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 641 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
No further information was provided.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML
Additional information was received on 11/Mar/2015 and following information was added to the case: guided 
questionnaire, patient's demographics, therapy details of rituximab, onset date of event progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy ((b) (6) ), new event: skin rash, lab test (bone marrow biopsy), past drugs, concomitant 
medications, lab investigations and event description was added.
Additional information was received on 18/Mar/2015 and following information was added to the case: New 
reporter, rituximab form and event description.
Additional information was received on 27/Mar/2015 and following information was added to the case: patient detail,
onset date of the event, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy updated as (b) (6)  and rituximab 
therapy details were added.