This serious spontaneous report from a consumer's spouse concerns a 64-year-old male patient from the United 
States was received on 10-FEB-2015.
The patient's relevant medical history was not reported.
The patient received 140 mg of IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib, capsule, dosing regimen not reported) for the treatment of 
an unknown indication.  The first dose of ibrutinib was initiated on an unspecified date.  Concomitant medications 
were not reported.
The patient initiated ibrutinib therapy at a lower dose of 140 mg for unknown reasons.
On an unspecified date in 2014, the patient passed away.  Details surrounding the death were not provided.
Action taken with ibrutinib was reported as unknown.  It was unknown if an autopsy was performed.
Additional information has been requested.
Follow-up information from the patient's widow was received on 13-FEB-2015, with an addendum received on 17-
FEB-2015. In OCT-2014 (exact date not reported), the patient stopped ibrutinib due to John Cunningham (JC) 
virus, which attacked his brain. Treatment for the JC virus was not reported. On (b) (6) , the patient passed 
away. Details surrounding the death were not provided. Additional information has been requested.
Follow-up information was received from the primary care physician (PCP) twice on 18-FEB-2015. 
Additional relevant medical history included chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Prior chemotherapies included 
multiple regimens containing rituximab, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, rituximab (FCR), fludarabine, rituximab 
alone, and bendamustine with rituximab (bendamustine- R). The patient received oral ibrutinib for the treatment of 
CLL. On an unknown date in OCT-2014, after only a few days treatment, ibrutinib was withdrawn for unknown 
reasons. In (b) (6)  (b) (6)  weeks after taking the first dose of ibrutinib, the patient was hospitalized and a 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain showed multifocal lesions which were suspicious for progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). A John Cunningham (JC) virus antibody titer was positive. A lumbar 
puncture (LP) was performed but the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was not tested for the JC virus although the protein 
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 658 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
level was elevated (value not reported). The diagnosis of PML was made by the MRI brain image and the 
progressive nature of the disease. On an unspecified date, the patient was discharged and died on (b) (6)  at
a nursing home. The PCP was not sure if the patient ever had a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) test. The 
reporter considered the causality between the PML and ibrutinib as most likely unrelated and most likely caused by 
prior therapies, since the patient was exposed to a low dose of ibrutinib for only a few days. No further information 
is expected.