AER 1539118 is a spontaneous literature case, received on 16/Feb/2015 and concerns a 55 year old male patient 
who developed neutropenia and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy while being treated with R-CHOP 
(Rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone). 
No medical history, concurrent illness, concomitant medications or past drugs were reported.
The patient first presented with a complaint of cough, fever, and a 4kg weight loss over eight months duration. 
Physical examination was significant for right axillary lymphadenopathy. A CT scan showed hepatic and splenic 
lesions and multiple abdominal lymphadenopathies. The patient underwent bone marrow and right axillary lymph 
node biopsies. The pathology showed diffuse large B cell  lymphoma with bone marrow involvement (stage IVB). 
He received RCHOP. The patient had significant clinical improvement on RCHOP but developed prolonged 
neutropenia which required several hospital admissions, despite the use of granulocyte colony stimulating factors. 
Following additional review, the pathological diagnosis was revised to nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkins 
lymphoma; however, the patient was continued on the same regimen. After four cycles of RCHOP, he had excellent
clinical and radiological response to the treatment. The fifth cycle was delayed, as the patient did not appear for the 
therapy until the following month, when the treatment was resumed. After completing six cycles, a positron 
emission tomography (PET)scan showed several small lymph nodes in the mediastinum and in the lung hilar areas 
with very low Standardized Uptake Values (SUV) of 2.1 of unknown significance. A month later, he was admitted 
with seizure activity. A CT scan of the brain followed by an MRI showed multiple brain lesions.  The MRI of the brain
showed multifocal cortical and subcortical periventricular lesions with no edema and enhancement. A similar lesion 
was noted in the brainstem. He was initially started on antibacterial and antifungal treatment. A brain biopsy was 
performed. The biopsy was composed of white matter which showed dense macrophage infiltration associated with
myelin loss. The presence of demyelination was confirmed by the stains for LFB/PAS and neurofilament, which 
highlight the loss of myelin with relative axonal preservation, as is typical of demyelination. In the background, there
was evidence of bizarre astrocytes with large hyperchromatic nuclei, as well as more typical viral inclusions 
characterized by chromatin margination. These inclusions were well highlighted by the in-situ hybridization studies 
for John Cunningham (JC) virus. On CD3 and CD20 stains, a moderate number of CD3 positive T lymphocytes 
were present. His pathological diagnosis was progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. It was reported that CSF
PCR for JC virus was not done. During his stay, he became unresponsive and bedridden. He had percutaneous 
endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube insertion. Mefloquine was not used due to G6PD deficiency.
There was insufficient information regarding outcome of neutropenia and progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. It was not known whether the therapy with R-Chop was ongoing.
The author stated that, while on R-chop the patient developed neutropenia and use of RCHOP has been 
associated with development of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
Print Time: 26-MAY-2016 01:56 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 670 of 675
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
No further information available.
Al-Tawfiq J, Banda R, Daabil R and Dawamneh M. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in a patient with lymphoma treated with rituximab: A case report
and literature review.
Journal of Infection and Public Health 201; 1-5.
This case is cross referenced with AER 1539687 (Table 1, first patient, Reference no 2 of same literature article).
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML