This non-serious spontaneous report from a nurse concerns a 60-year-old male patient from the United States and 
was received on 09-FEB-2015, with follow-up from a physician received on 11-FEB-2015.
The patient's relevant medical history included chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) diagnosed in1996, John 
Cunningham (JC) virus, mental status changes/altered mental status, speech impairment, altered short term 
memory, making mistakes and personality changes with flat affect.  The patient had no allergies.  The patient 
received multiple lines of therapies including but not limited to R-CHOP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin,
vincristine, prednisone), Zevalin (ibritumomab tiuxetan), R (rituximab)-bendamustine and rituximab.
The patient received 420 mg of IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib, capsule, route of administration not reported) once daily for 
the treatment of CLL.  The first dose of ibrutinib was initiated in mid JAN-2015 (also reported as 26-DEC-2014).
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 1 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Concomitant medication included Rituxan (rituximab).
On an unknown date, after taking the first dose of ibrutinib the patient experienced diarrhea and stomach issues.
Treatment for the events was not reported and the outcome was unknown.  On (b) (6)  after receiving 
approximately(b) (6)  weeks of ibrutinib therapy and one dose of rituximab, the patient was admitted to the hospital 
with pre-existing symptoms of altered mental status/mental status change, confusion, making mistakes, personality
changes with flat affect, speech impairment and altered short term memory.  On the same day, a magnetic 
resonance image (MRI) showed a large confluent region in the right frontal lobe which was hypo-intense on both T1
and T2 images.  The patient underwent a lumbar puncture but the final result was inconclusive by polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) and the rest of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was unremarkable.  According to the neuro-oncologist, 
the patient did not have a brain biopsy, but based on the patient's neurological symptoms and the appearance of 
the lesion in the frontal lobe it was consistent with the diagnosis of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(PML).  On 06-FEB-2015, ibrutinib therapy was stopped.  On an unspecified date, the patient was discharged to 
home under hospice care.  His condition continued to decline and he remained confused.  It was the physician's 
opinion that the patient already had signs and symptoms of PML prior to starting ibrutinib, therefore based on his 
professional opinion the PML was not caused by ibrutinib, but was a pre-existing condition.
Additional information has been requested.
Additional information was received from a company representative on 11-FEB-2015. 
This case was reassessed as serious based upon new information received. The patient had symptoms which 
could have suggested retrospectively to the primary care physician (PCP) that the patient could have had PML prior
to the hospitalization, but the actual diagnosis of PML was made during hospitalization and was based on the MRI 
result.
The outcome of PML is reported as not resolved at the time of this report. 
Additional information has been requested.
Additional information from a physician and his medical assistant was received on 25-FEB-2015 and 27-FEB-2015. 
The physician reported a patient taking ibrutinib had PML. It was suspected that the patient already had PML before
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 2 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
ibrutinib was initiated, and it was not documented. At the time of this report, PML was ongoing. 
Additional information was previously requested
Follow up was received from the physician on 19-MAR-2015. 
The patient's relevant medical history was updated to include ex-smoker. On an unspecified date in DEC-2014 the 
patient began to experience the symptoms of PML and it was clarified that PML was not a historical condition. 
Additionally it was clarified that the diarrhea occurred coincidentally with the start of ibrutinib on an unspecified date.
Treatment for diarrhea included Imodium (loperamide hydrochloride). The diarrhea and stomach issues resolved on
an unspecified date. Treatment for PML included palliative care. The outcome for PML was not resolved and 
clarified as the patient was deceased. No further information was provided. The reporter considered the causality 
between the diarrhea, stomach issues, and ibrutinib as related. The reporter considered the causality between PML
and ibrutinib as not related. No further information is expected.
This case version (4) was created on 19-MAR-2015 for the purpose of quality improvement. Upon review the 
following corrections were made. The patient experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy on an 
unspecified date (previously DEC-2014).