Medically Significant
A report was received via the literature: Hoepner R, Klotz P, Faissner S, Schneider R, Kinner M, Prehn C, et al. 
Neuropsychological impairment in natalizumab-associated progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy: 
implications for early diagnosis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Jan 27. pii: jnnp-2014-310287. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2014-310287. [Epub ahead of print]. The authors compared the neuropsychological performance of 
patients with natalizumab-PML (NAT-PML) with patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) during 
natalizumab therapy and patients with RRMS with relapse; the authors identified specific neuropsycholgical 
abnormalities that might support early NAT-PML diagnosis. Methods: Epidemiological characteristics of patients 
with NAT-PML and controls (stable natalizumab-treated patients; patients with RRMS with preceding relapse) were 
summarized. All patients were tested negative for anti-natalizumab antibodies. All patients with NAT-PML were 
tested positive for anti-JCV antibodies and positive for JCV DNA in CSF. Neurological examination included 
Wechsler Memory Scale, Rey Auditory Verbal Learning test, Regensburger Word Fluency Test, Shulman Clock 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 8 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Drawing Test, and Beck Depression Inventory II. Results: Whereas half of the patients with NAT-PML (4/8) 
reported cognitive symptoms at clinical presentation, neuropsychological examination demonstrated cognitive 
impairment in all patients. Pronounced differences between patients with NAT-PML and both control groups were 
detected in Wechsler Memory Scale and Shulman Clock Drawing Test (p<0.05). Patients with NAT-PML did not 
differ in the Beck Depression Inventory II assessment from NAT-treated patients with MS, however patients with 
MS during relapse tended to demonstrate higher values suggestive of a depressive episode. In conclusion, this 
study was the first to describe a specific pattern of neuropsychological impairment in patients with NAT-PML at 
diagnosis. Our findings on reduced visuospatial abilities and working memory as specific and early discriminants to 
identify patients with PML need corroboration. If validated, our data may have implications for early diagnosis of 
PML using specific neuropsychological tests. This case refers to a male patient who experienced PML (onset 
unknown). No further patient specific information was provided.
Update 30 Apr 2015: Biogen Idec consider this case to be high suspect for PML based on clinical symptoms and 
positive CSF JCV DNA; however this case is classified as final call as additional informaiton is not expected despite
multiple attempts to obtain such from the author.