AER 1351825, received on 17/Feb/2014  is a spontaneous, literature case received from a physician and concerns 
a 65 year old male patient who developed  JC polyomavirus granule cell neuronopathy and progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) while being treated with rituximab.
The patient's medical history included no history of immunodeficiency, chronic viral infection, HIV (human 
immunodeficiency virus), herpes simplex, herpes zoster, opportunistic infection  CMV (cytomegalovirus) 
pneumocystis  carinii pneumonia or any known CNS (central nervous system) pathology. He had no history of 
previous immunosuppressive or chemotherapy.
The patient was presented with an 8-month history of progressive cerebellar ataxia. The patient was diagnosed as 
having non-hodgkin lymphoma and treated with 6 cycles of the CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin 
hydrochloride [hydroxydaunorubicin], vincristine sulfate[Oncovin], and prednisone) regimen, with a good response. 
He started maintenance therapy consisting of rituximab with infusions initially every 6months. Five years before 
presentation, the frequency of rituximab infusions was increased to every month because of persistent 
lymphadenopathy. Eight months before presentation, the patient noted the gradual onset of gait instability. magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain demonstrated early vermian atrophy in the cerebellum but no significant white
matter changes. A lumbar puncture 2 months after symptom onset showed a white blood cell count of 12/mm3 with
44% lymphocytes and 56% monocytes, an elevated protein level at 102 mg/dL, and a glucose level within the 
reference range at 68mg/dL,without malignant cells on cytopathologic analysis. Four months before presentation, 
he gradually developed slurred, slowed speech without word-finding difficulties. His gait worsened, requiring use of 
a walker. His hand coordination worsened to the point that he could no longer write legibly. He occasionally would 
choke and cough when drinking. At presentation, the neurological examination demonstrated normal cognition and 
moderate ataxic dysarthria. The patient displayed saccadic ocular pursuits, square wave jerks, and rebound and 
gaze-evoked nystagmus. He had marked titubation when sitting upright and appendicular dysmetria, worse on the 
right side, with dysdiadochokinesia. He had a wide based gait with short strides and could not ambulate without 
assistance. He had visual field defects in the inferior hemifield of the right eye and lateral hemifield of the left eye, 
and results of an ophthalmologic evaluation revealed retinal degeneration. Results of motor and sensory 
examinations and deep tendon reflexes were otherwise normal. Analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed a 
white blood cell count of 3/mm3, red blood cell count of 1/mm3, protein level of 81 mg/dL, and glucose level of 67 
mg/dL. His CSF polymerase chain reaction (PCR) findings were positive for JCV at 109 000 copies/ml, consistent 
with active infection. He was diagnosed with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.  After consultation with 
his oncologist, rituximab infusions were stopped. During the ensuing 4 months, the patient continued to decline. His
swallowing difficulties and visual field deficits worsened, and he became non ambulatory. He developed 
progressive weight loss and fatigue. He was re admitted 1 year after symptom onset because of several episodes 
of non responsiveness suggestive of seizure. Results of an electroencephalogram and cardiovascular workup were
unremarkable. He started empirical therapy with levetiracetam and these episodes resolved. A second MRI of the 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 22 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
brain showed progressive cerebellar volume loss with T2-weighted hyperintensity in the dorsal midbrain, pons, and 
cerebellar peduncles. A second lumbar puncture showed a white blood cell count of 1/mm3, red blood cell count of 
0/mm3, protein level of 86 mg/dL, and glucose level of 56 mg/dL. Subsequent CSF PCR for JCV demonstrated 18 
000 copies/ml. The patient died 17 months after the onset of neurological symptoms. A postmortem examination 
was not performed. The JCV from the CSF sample obtained at presentation demonstrated a new granule cell 
neuronopathy (GCN)-type JCV strain with a 12-base pair in-frame deletion located in the C terminal of the VP1 
gene (RefSeq NC_001699) (2496-2507 in the Mad1 DNA sequence), which was named as JCVGCN5.
There was insufficient information regarding outcome of JC polyomavirus granule cell neuronopathy and 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as well as therapy ongoing status of rituximab.
The authors reported that, the patient developed JC polyomavirus granule cell neuronopathy and progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy during therapy with rituximab. They also stated that ''This patient likely had a 
coinfection with both strains of the virus before rituximab therapy, and the mutated form was responsible for the 
JCV GCN phenotype. Subsequently, the development of more classic PML findings likely represented the 
emergence of the wild-type virus as the dominant feature driving the disease. Consistent with this possibility, 
repeated magnetic resonance imaging revealed more typical white matter PML lesions in addition to cerebellar 
atrophy".
The company assessed JC polyomavirus granule cell neuronopathy and progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy as medically significant.
No further information was provided.
Dang L, Dang X, Koralnik  I and Todd P. 
JC Polyomavirus Granule Cell Neuronopathy in a Patient Treated With Rituximab. 
JAMA neurology 2014; 71(4): 487-489
Additional information was received on 18/Feb/2014 and the following information has been added to the case: 
Reporter and patient detail was updated. Indication was added as non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Suspect product details 
(form and frequency of rituximab) was added. AE text, causality statement and lab data was added.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML.
Following review on 26/Feb/2014, the following information originally received on 18/Feb/2014 was corrected: PML 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 23 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
confirmation data was added in AE text.
Additional information was received on 19/Feb/2015. The following information was added to the case: Guided 
questionnaire received. Patient's age and medical history added.  Event of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy added.  Literature tab updated (publication date, volume, issue and page numbers).