AER 1539687 is a spontaneous literature case, received on 16/Feb/2015 and concerns a 55 year old male patient 
who developed possible progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), while being treated with rituximab, 
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone (R-CHOP ). 
The patient was presented fatigue, irregular fever, weight loss, diffuse abdominal pain one month ago. Physical 
examination revealed a tumor in the left hypochondrium and left flank of the abdomen. Laboratory findings revealed
hemoglobin value 13.3 g/dL, leukocyte count 8500/cmm (neutrophils 73%, lymphocytes 15%, eosinophils 2%, 
monocytes 10%); platelet count 368 000/cmm. Inflammatory tests revealed: erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) 
29 mm/hr, fibrinogen 604 mg/dL; lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 449 U/L. Computed tomography (CT scans) of the 
whole abdomen including the pelvis, revealed a left retroperitoneal tumor, 6.3/5.8 cm, irregular, homogenous, 
between left kidney, pancreas and spleen, and multiple lymphadenopathies with 1.4-2.7 diameter in the splenic 
hilum, left kidney hilum, mesenteric and latero-aortic lymph nodes. Immunohistochemically, the malignant cells 
were positive for CD20 (B-cell marker), UCHL1/CD45RO (T-cell marker), BCL2, Ki-67 (proliferation factor) and 
negative for vimentin, FVIII, cromogranin, EMA. Bone marrow smear revealed a hypercellular bone marrow with a 
granulocytes/erythrocytes ratio 100/30; erythroid series with light erythroblastic anisocytosis; rich granulocytic series
with light deviation to the left; lympho-plasmocytic series: 10-12% lymphocytes; 2-4% plasmocytes; rich 
megakaryocytes series with frequent thrombocytogenic megakaryocytes. The final diagnosis of the patient was 
diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma stage IIIB. The patient was hospitalized in (b) (6)  in the (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  with the diagnosis of diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, stage IIIB. 
The patient received eight cycles R-CHOP (rituximab + cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone); an
abdominal ultrasound revealed the disappearance of retroperitoneal tumor after four cycles R-CHOP. At the ending
of the eight cycles R-CHOP the patient was in complete hematological remission and a FDG-PET/CT 
(fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography) done which revealed the total remission of disease (intra-
cranially, head-neck region, supra and infraclavicularly, in the mammae and axillae, pathological FDG distribution or
morphological alterations could not be detected; in the lungs the radiopharma distribution was normal, pathological 
alteration could not be seen; in the mediastinum and in the lung hila enlarged lymph nodes or other pathognomonic 
alterations were not represented. In the normal-sized liver focal accumulation could not be detected, and in the 
native scans circumscribed alteration in density was not represented. The gallbladder, spleen, pancreas and 
adrenal glands were without alteration; The FDG excretion of the kidneys was appropriate, symmetric, pyelectasia 
could not be seen. In the colon and in the rectum focal accumulation could not be identified; in the organs of the 
lesser pelvis pathological tracer accumulation could not be detected. In the mapped infradiaphragmatic lymph 
regions alteration in density referring to pathological lymph node, pathological FDG accumulation could not be 
detected. In the mapped bones, pathological FDG accumulation could not be seen). After a week after coming back
from Budapest, the patient returned in the Clinic of Hematology presenting double visions, drowsiness, behavior 
disorders, euphoria. Neurologic exam revealed a bradylalic patient, with a complete paresis of the right oculomotor 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 45 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
and incomplete paresis of the left oculomotor nerve. Cranial NMR revealed: unspecific areas with hypersemnal 
T2/PD and multiple demyelinating lesions of the anterior ponto-mesencephalon region and the right thalamus. 
Laboratory findings included leukocytosis (white blood count 11 390/cmm) with neutrophilia (neutrophils 75.9%, 
lymphocytes 15.1%, eosinophils 2%, monocytes 7%); hemoglobin value 14.3 g/dL, Ht 42.9%, platelet count 169 
000/cmm, erythrocyte sedimentation rate 3 mm/hr, fibrinogen 765 and than 244 mg/dL, lactate dehydrogenase 212 
U/L. Bone marrow exam was normal. Lumbar puncture and cerebrospinal fluid exam revealed eosinophilia in 
cerebrospinal fluid. The parasitological tests done at N.C.D.M.I. Cantacuzino for cysticercosis (ELISA IgG), 
toxoplasmosis (ELISA IgG and IgM), borelliosis (ELISA IgG and IgM) were negative.  In the context of the treatment
with rituximab a possibility of PML as an adverse reaction to the treatment with anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody was
thought. Unfortunately, the viral DNA of John Cunningham's virus in cerebrospinal fluid could not be detected. It 
was reported that differential diagnosis was made with: cerebral determinations of NHL (lower probability in the 
context of PET total remission, low level of LDH); lymphomatous meningitis (absence of malignant B-cells in 
cerebrospinal fluid); cerebral parasitosis (negative tests for cysticercosis, toxoplasmosis, borelliosis). The patient 
received treatment with mannitol, corticosteroids, cephalosporins; the evolution was unfavorable and he died after 
two months from the beginning of neurological symptoms.
There was insufficient information regarding the outcome of possible PML.
The authors stated that possible PML is an adverse event of rituximab.
The company assessed the event of possible PML as medically significant.
No further information was provided.
Al-Tawfiq J, Banda R, Daabil R and Dawamneh M. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in a patient with lymphoma treated with rituximab: A case report
and literature review.
Journal of Infection and Public Health 2015: 1-5.
Gaman A, Bold A and Gaman G. 
The unexpected evolution of a case of diffuse large B cell non Hodgkin lymphoma. 
Rom J Morphol Embryol 2011; 52(2): 719-722
Additional information was received on 19/Feb/2015.
The following information was added to the case: Primary source country changed to Romania from previously 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 46 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
captured as Saudi Arabia, event term of PML ammended to possible PML, lab test and narrative updated.
This case is cross referenced with AER 1539118 (same literature article).