Based upon additional information received on 23-Feb-2015 from neurologist via MS one to one patient support 
program, the case was medically confirmed
Initial information regarding this clinically sponsored serious solicited case from United States was received on 02-
Feb-2015 from consumer via MS one to one patient support program. 
This case involves a 42-years old male patient who experienced MS attack and MS lesions on MRI,  6 months 
after; became MS symptomatic/MS became aggressive/MRI showed active MS and was found positive for JCV 
virus an unknown duration after; idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 2 months after; and shingles few months 
after receiving treatment with teriflunomide (Aubagio).
Relevant medical history included multiple sclerosis diagnosed in Sep-1999; Date of last relapse: Feb-15. Patient 
had no relevant family history.
No past drugs were reported.
Concomitant medication includes: natalizumab (tysabri) and dimethyl fumarate (tecfidera)
On 04-Mar-2014, the patient commenced therapy with oral teriflunomide at a dose of 14 mg once daily (strength: 
14 mg, form, lot/batch number and expiry date: unknown) for multiple sclerosis. 
On an unknown date, patient had problems when he took teriflunomide, after he became MS symptomatic, 
weakness, mobility problems and MS become aggressive and had MRI that showed active MS, and he began to 
have more symptoms, and was currently needing a cane to assist in walking (corrective treatment). On an unknown
date, patient was found to be positive for JCV virus and had to be taken off of natalizumab was currently taking 
dimethyl fumarate. On an unknown date in Aug-2014, patient experienced MS attack and new MS lesions on MRI.
Upon follow-up, in (b) (6)  after a latency of (b)(6)  months, the patient was diagnosed with ITP (idiopathic 
thrombocytopenic purpura). Treatment included hospitalization and blood transfusion (corrective). In the summer of
2015 (latency: unknown) the patient was diagnosed with shingles. Treatment included aciclovir (Acyclovir) 
(corrective)
Therapy was stopped on 03-Feb-2015.
Outcome: Recovered on an unknown date on (b) (6)  for the events of MS attack, MS lesions on MRI and 
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura and unknown for rest of the events
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 75 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Reporter causality: Not reported
Company causality: Not associated for MS symptomatic/MS became aggressive/MRI showed active MS, idiopathic 
thrombocytopenic purpura and shingles and associated for JCV virus
The case was assessed as serious as the events of MS attack and MS lesions on MRI were assessed as medically
significant and the event of became MS symptomatic/MS became aggressive/MRI showed active MS was 
assessed as serious as per IME list; hospitalization for idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura
Additional information was received on 23-Feb-2015 from neurologist via MS one to one patient support program: 
The case was medically confirmed, Added new reporter (neurologist), Updated patient's demographics (added age 
and height), Added new serious events of MS relapse and MRI abnormal; updated therapy details of teriflunomide 
(added therapy dates and dosing details); updated action taken from 'unknown' to 'Drug Withdrawn NOS'; updated 
lab data; updated latency and amended the text accordingly
Additional follow-up information was received on 17-Mar-2015 from the physician:
No new information received.
Additional information was received from a patient via nurse in (b) (6)  on 09-Nov-
Serious event added (idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura), event added (shingles), therapy dates updated and 
text was amended accordingly.