Information was received on 28-May-2014.   This is an unsponsored study case reported by a investigator referring 
to a 65-year-old female patient who experienced progressive multifocale leucoencephalopathy during 
bendamustine hydrochloride treatment. The patient (ID: (b) (6) ) was enrolled in (b) (6)
 Eudra CT no: 2010-020757-14. The patient was randomized to the 
Bendamustine hydrochloride  Powder (except dusting powder) (Teva product cannot be ruled out) group. 
Other suspect drug used was rituximab (non Teva) used for follicular lymphoma from 23-Oct-2011 - 23-Aug-2011, 
595 mg, unknown route and frequency.
Procedure included disc hernia surgery in 1999.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 63 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Concomitant medications included vitamins mix, minerals nos, and liver extract. 
The patient received bendamustine hydrochloride for follicular lymphoma according to the following dosage 
regimen: 12-May-2011 - 10-Jun-2011: Unknown route 138 mg, cyclic.
In Aug-2012, the patient was presented with transientdiplopia episode. In Sep-2012 the patient developed 
progressive multifocale leucoencephalopathy. In Sep-2012 the patient related a left hemibody muscular weakness. 
It was reported that she had complained weakness of both lower left predominance members occurring after 15 to 
20 minutes walk, then with a no painful numbness feeling of left lower member. 
She did not relate current back pain but would have benefited from a disc hernia surgery in 1999. Note that these 
functional symptoms were stable for several months. The patient was seen in electroclinic plan in Nov-2012. 
Clinically on this day, walking of the patient was normal. There was no significant atrophy, no sensory deficit, no 
reflex abnormality. In contrast, there was a deficit of tigh flexion and eversion of the left foot while, in particular, her 
dorsal flexion appears normal. The electrophysiological assessment (EMG, given to the patient) does not provide 
the current argument in favor of a diffuse neuropathy, appearing therefore allow continued vincristine. It notes that 
the route of detection at the left psoas muscle was normal, which was contrasting with the observed clinical deficit. 
On the other hand, only plots of very poor detection could be obtained at the peroneus longus muscle left side but 
appeared without frank temporal summation, assuredly without spontaneous activity, with a normal level of 
detection at anterior and extensors Tibialis muscle of the toes and that the sensory superficial left peroneal 
potential was normal.
The patient had left hemibody muscular weakness and the situation worsened in Dec-2012. An exhaustive checkup
was done and was negative. On 31-Dec-2012, MRI (Magnetic resonance imaging) was done which showed a small
oval lesion in the posterior cerebral fossa to the pontomedullary junction, lateralized to the right. The lesion was with
discreet Flair hyper-signal, T2 hyper- signal and T1 hypo-signal without enhancement after injection. The aspect 
was nonspecific (probableischemic injury sequelae), no abnormality signal visualized on supratentorial floor also not
making periventricular contrast, no hydrocephalus or mass effect, no abnormality visualized on diffusion sequence 
and it was concluded that oval lesion in flair hyper-signal, discreet T2 hyper signal at the pontomedullary junction 
lateralized to the right which may be ischemic. 
It was reported that, the patient was admitted to our department for making a right evolutive protuberantial bilan. 
The patient had stage IV follicular lymphoma diagnosed incidentally during an urological surgery in late 2010. She 
received first chemotherapy in 2011 and second in 2012 and 2013 following a control pet- scan. The patient 
received R-CHOP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisolone) therapy from 21-Feb-
2013 to 27-Jun-2013. Chemotherapy sessions were stopped since June 2013. The last control PET scan in June 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 64 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
2013 showed no particular abnormality. Since(b) (6)  she had a weakness of the left side of the body 
progressively worse since. A first assessment with MRI and lumbar puncture allowed to find a minimal right pontine 
lesion with ischemic nature which had been raised with the introduction of treatment of Kardegic and normal 
Doppler of the supra- aortic trunks.
On (b) (6)  there was a lymphoma progression. In Oct-2013, the patient presented pyramidal syndrome and a
new check-up was scheduled in May-2014, which permitted to conclude to a progressive multifocale 
leucoencephalopathy.
Lab dat included,
On (b) (6) , Blood test was done and showed CMV (cytomegalo virus) was greater than 200 copies/ml
On (b) (6)  Serum collected  and the serology was done which showed negative for Chalmydophilla 
pneumoniae Ig M, Mycoplasma pneumoniae Ig M and Ig G and showed positive for Chalmydophilla pneumoniae Ig 
G with the value of 113 (reference range: less than 22)
On an unspecified date, macroscopic examination of cerebrospinal fluid was done and revealed lack of cell tumor.
On an unspecified date, Cerebrospinal fluid was examined for the presence of Cryptococcal antigenuria which 
showed negative result.
On 14-Jan-2014, cerebrospinal fluid test was done for herpes simplex virus, cytomegalovirus varicella herpes 
zoster and JC virus and it showed negative result for herpes simplex virus, varicella herpes zoster and JC virus but 
no result was provided cytomegalovirus.
On an unspecified date, cerebrospinal fluid mycological examination was done and it showed negative result.
On 27-Sep-2013, lumbar puncture cytological examination was done and concluded that cytology was 
uninformative.
Lumbar puncture assessed in May-2014 showed a JC virus positive
The MRI control made on 10-Sep- 2013 allowed to find a pontomedullary cerebellar peduncle and looking rather 
infiltrative whose lymphoma nature was not excluded.
Clinical examination, which was made at the admission, found left hemiparesis sparing the face, left pyramidal 
syndrome, semicircular gait at the walk on the left. There were no other abnormalities on physical examination 
except that the patient was very anxious. 
Additional examinations were as follows : lumbar puncture : 27/mm3 leukocytes , erythrocytes to 1700/mm3 , 
protein concentration of 0.68 g / l, glucose level of 3.3 mmol / L , indica gamma of 0.44 (normal less than 0.7 ) , 
cytology was not informative, flow cytometry was not performed because of the low number of lymphocytes found in
the lumbar puncture.
On an unspecified date, the sample was collected from right pontomedullary lesion and it underwent for 
pathological examination and it was finally concluded that the aspects were observed in favor of hemorrhagic 
softening in the process of debridement without suspicious lesion.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 65 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
28-Aug-2015 : Neurological examination : neuralogical signs of Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy stable.
14-Jan-2015 : Magnetic Resonanace Imaging (MRI) : Stable since MRI assessed on 31-Dec-2012.
12-Dec-2014 : Clinical examination : neuralogical signs of Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
improvement.
Action taken with bendamustine hydrochloride was not applicable.
The outcome of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was reported as not recovered.
The investigator assessed the following events with respect to bendamustine hydrochloride: 
 - Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (seriousness: Life Threatening, Medically Significant; causality: Not 
Related)
The reporter assessed the causality of the event was related to rituximab.
Follow-up information was received on 14-Aug-2014 by Astellas license partner Mundipharma and forwarded to 
Astellas on 15-Aug-2014. Suspect drug therapy details were updated.
Follow-up information was received on 10-Feb-2015 by Astellas license partner Mundipharma and forwarded to 
Astellas on 11-Feb-2015. Therapy details were updated.
Follow up information received on 12-Jan-2016. Newor updated information included : additional lab data and 
confirmation of event outcome as not recovered.
Sender comment: The Astellas Medical Reviewer assessed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as serious
due to threat to life, medical significance. Based on the inferred time line the causality for the event cannot be fully 
excluded, hence was assessed as possible.