Initial information regarding this solicited case from United States was received on 18-Feb-2015 from a consumer 
to (b) (6)
This case concerns a 52-year-old adult female patient (Patient ID:(b) (6) ) who experienced JC Virus, allergic 
reaction, could not breath, head was itching very bad, like bugs and coughing, unspecified time after, developed a 
yeast infection, mouth was red, mouth looked inflamed,  tingling all over that she said felt like bugs crawling all over 
her, started itching all over her body, throat started itching/scratchy throat, felt like she was dying few days after 
commencing therapy with teriflunomide (Aubagio).
Medical history, concomitant medications and concurrent conditions were unknown.
Past drugs: natalizumab (Tysabri) and glatiramer acetate (Copaxone)
In Jan-2015, the patient started therapy with teriflunomide at a dose of 14 mg orally daily (strength: 14 mg, form, 
lot/batch number and expiry date: unknown) till an unknown date.  On 02-Feb-2015, the patient commenced 
treatment with oral teriflunomide at a dose of 14 mg daily (strength: 14 mg, form, lot/batch number and expiry date: 
unknown) for multiple sclerosis. 
The patient stated she had been taking teriflunomide for about 2 weeks and after an unspecified time, in Feb-2015; 
the patient was having an allergic reaction. They put it off (starting teriflunomide) at first because of the JC Virus. 
The patient stated she did not say anything to her husband at first but could not breathe and head was itching very 
badly, like bugs. Throat started itching and had to take diphenhydramine hydrochloride (Benadryl) (corrective). The 
patient was coughing. HCP told her to stop the therapy on 16-Feb-2015. 
It was reported that she would not be going back on teriflunomide. She didfine the first week she took teriflunomide.
But starting in the second week she developed an "allergic reaction" to it. Her spouse indicated that she started 
itching all over her body and hair and felt as if there were bugs under her skin. She then developed a scratchy 
throat and started coughing and could not stop. She then developed trouble breathing and had to go to the 
emergency room where they told her she was having an allergic reaction. She was given Benedryl. Her spouse 
stated she was doing better but had also developed a yeast infection and she still has the yeast infection persisting 
despite already taking medication for it. He said the HCP had prescribed some more medication for the yeast 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 60 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
infection and told her it was
related to the allergic reaction. When she went to the ER she was unable to catch her breath and she felt like she 
was dying. She was continuing to take Benedryl and was doing better. She has been off the teriflunomide for a few 
weeks. She was prescribed the maximum dose of benadryl to combat her symptoms. Her mouth was red and 
looked inflamed. The called also reported that the symptoms started after the 1st week that she started 
teriflunomide and increasingly got worst over the following week. She stopped taking the medication after taking it 
for 2 weeks. She went to the hospital for her symptoms and was given and prescribed benadryl which did help.
Action taken: Drug withdrawn NOS (On 16-Feb-2015)
Event outcome: felt like she was dying, mouth was red, mouth looked inflamed: unknown ; allergic reaction, couldn't
breath/trouble breathing/unable to catch her breath, head was itching very bad, like bugs, throat started 
itching/scratchy throat, coughing, started itching all over her body, tingling all over that she said felt like bugs 
crawling all over her : recovering;  developed a yeast infection: not recovered, 
Seriousness criteria: Important Medical Event for JC Virus infection
Reporter Causality: Not reported
Company Causality: Associated
Additional information was received on 05-Mar-2015:
Updated therapy; Added event yeast infection, oral mucosa redness, inflammation of mouth, feeling abnormal and 
tingling; updated outcome of allergic reaction, coughing, difficulty breathing, itchy scalp and throat; added corrective
for itchy scalp, allergic reaction and difficulty breathing; Updated verbatim of itchy throat and difficulty breathing. 
Age amended.