Reference case 2015AL000932 is a literature case retrieved by Alvogen from Saudi Arabia on 18-Feb-2015 
pertaining to a 55-year-old-male patient, who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) and 
neutropenia while on doxorubicin, rituximab, cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone for nodular lymphocyte 
predominant Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Medical history included Hodgkin's lymphoma. Concomitant medication details were unknown at the time of the 
report.
On an unknown date, the patient started treatment with doxorubicin, rituximab, cyclophosphamide, vincristine and 
prednisone for Nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin's lymphoma. The patient was presented with a complaint 
of cough, fever, and a 4-kg weight loss over eight months duration. Physical examination was significant for right 
axillary lymphadenopathy. A computed tomography (CT)  scan showed hepatic and splenic lesions and multiple 
abdominal lymphadenopathies. The patient underwent bone marrow and right axillary lymph node biopsies. The 
pathology showed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma with bone marrow involvement (stage IV-B). He received 
doxorubicin, rituximab, cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone (R-CHOP, unspecified dose and frequency). 
The patient had significant clinical improvement on R-CHOP but developed prolonged neutropenia which required 
several hospital admissions, despite the use of granulocytecolony stimulating factors. Following additional review, 
the pathological diagnosis was revised to nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin's lymphoma; however, the 
patient was continued on the same regimen.
Patient's histopathology biopsy was composed of white matter which showed dense macrophage infiltration 
associated with myelin loss. The presence of demyelination was confirmed by the stains for LFB/PAS and neuro-
filament, which highlight the loss of myelin with relative axonal preservation, as is typical of demyelination. In the 
background, there was evidence of bizarre astrocytes with large hyper chromatic nuclei, as well as more typical 
viral inclusions characterized by chromatin margination. These inclusions were well-highlighted by the in-situ 
hybridization studies for John Cunningham (JC) virus. On CD3 and CD20 stains, a moderate number of CD3 
positive T-lymphocytes were present.
After four cycles of R-CHOP, he had excellent clinical and radiological response to the treatment. The fifth cycle 
was delayed, as the patient did not appear for the therapy until the following month, when the treatment was 
resumed. After completing six cycles, a positron emission tomography (PET) scan showed several small lymph 
nodes in the mediastinum and in the lung hilar areas with very low Standardized Uptake Values (SUV) of 2.1 of 
unknown significance. A month later, he was admitted with seizure activity. A CT scan of the brain followed by an 
MRI showed multiple brain lesions The MRI of the brain showed multifocal cortical and sub cortical periventricular 
lesions with no edema and enhancement. A similar lesion was noted in the brain stem. He was initially started on 
anti-bacterial and anti-fungal treatment. A brain biopsy was performed with a pathological diagnosis of progressive 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 79 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
multifocal leukoencephalopathy. 
During his stay, he became unresponsive and bedridden. He had per cutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) 
tube insertion. Mefloquine was not used due to G6PDdeficiency.
Action taken with doxorubicin, rituximab, cyclophosphamide, vincristine and outcome of the events were unknown 
at the time of the report.
Al-Tawfiq JA, Banda RW, Daabil RA, Dawamneh MF. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in a 
patient with lymphoma treated with rituximab: A case report and literature review. J Infect Public Health. 2015 Feb 
6. pii: S1876-0341(15)00006-4.