Medically Significant
A neurologist spontaneously reported via a Biogen Idec representative that a female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, 
IV, QM) for Multiple Sclerosis from unknown date to unknown date experienced suspicion of PML (onset unknown).
 A MRI (date unknown) and JCV PCR test (NOS) (date unknown) were performed, but the results were not 
provided. It was planned that the patient would be treated with immunoadsorption.  The outcome for the event 
suspicion of PML is unknown. Causality for the event is unknown.  It is unknown if TYSABRI treatment is ongoing.
Update 20 Feb 2015: Additional information was received from the neurologist, who reported that the 50 year old 
female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for multiple sclerosis from Sep 2009 to Jan 2015 was hospitalized on
(b) (6)  due to suspicion of PML. The patient received a total of 58 TYSABRI infusions without interruption. 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 82 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Past medical history included MS diagnosed in 1992 and hypothyroidism. Previous MS therapies included 
mitoxantrone and cyclophosphamide. Concomitant medications included L-Thyroxin (levothyroxine). Clinical 
symptoms on hospitalization considered consistent with PML were cognitive impairment and organic brain 
syndrome - further specified as frontal brain syndrome.  The patient tested negative for TYSABRI neutralizing 
antibodies in Jan 2014 and negative for anti-JCV antibodies in Aug 2014. A brain MRI performed on 23 Sep 2014 
revealed: Known MS with evidence of supratentorial lesions with moderate lesion volume and partial loss of axons 
and demyelination seen in the native T1 weighted images. No relevant atrophy. No contrast enhancing. No 
significant changes in comparison with the previous examination from Mar 2014. A brain MRI on (b) (6)
showed the following: In comparison with the previous examination from Sep 2014, there were new extended 
confluating lesions in the frontal lobe on both sides as well as in temporal and occipital lobes on the left side with 
partially weak streaky contrast enhancement in the marginal regions accompanied by a drop of signal intensity in 
the T1 weighted images and evidence of diffusion disturbance. Furthermore, a new, relatively sharply defined lesion
in the genu capsulae internae reaching over the crus cerebri up to the pons with weak contrast enhancement was 
displayed. New lesions in pedunculus cerebelli medius as well as in the cerebellum on the left side with weak 
contrast enhancement. Further new contrast enhancing small lesions in the cerebellum on the right side and single 
small lesions in the pons without certain evidence of contrast enhancement. Conclusion: findings most likely 
consistent with PML. On (b) (6)  a lumbar puncture was performed and the CSF JCV DNA (local) returned 
positive at 216 copies/ml. A brain MRI on (b) (6) revealed: In comparison with the previous examination from 
(b) (6)  there were no significant changes. Limited comparability due to motion artifacts and different layer 
orientation. However, diffusion disturbance in the frontal cranial region as well as contrast enhancing lesion in 
pedunculus cerebelli medius dorsal on the left side appeared clearer. Contrast enhancement was seen somewhat 
more pronounced in that area. The patient was diagnosed with PML and has received mirtazapine 45 mg PO QD 
since (b) (6)  and Celsentin (presume Celsentri; maraviroc) 300 mg PO QD since (b) (6)  Other 
treatment included Keppra (levetiracetam) 1000 mg PO QD since (b) (6)  for seizure prophylaxis and IVIG 20 
g from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  Causality for the event of PML was assessed as related. TYSABRI was 
permanently discontinued on (b) (6)
Update 02 Mar 2015: The professor of neurology provided following additional information. The patient had been 
discharged from the hospital on unknown date. On 20 Aug 2014, serum anti-JCV-antibody test was performed (with
negative results, as reported previously). On (b) (6)  the patient was re-tested for serum anti-JCV-antibodies 
and the test returned positive.
Update 03 Mar 2015: Biogen Idec considers this case confirmed for PML based on positive CSF, consistent 
radiological evidence, and clinical symptoms.
Update 17 Aug 2015: Additional information was received from the neurologist via hospital discharge letter for the 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 83 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
patient's hospitalization from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)   The patient is alive and currently being treated at a 
psychiatric hospital since (b) (6)   At the time of this report the patient's EDSS was assessed at 2.  The 
neurologist reported the patient's current hospital diagnoses included PML following TYSABRI therapy and basic 
diagnosis was MS.  MS was diagnosed in 1992, and treated with cyclophosphamide from Jun 1993 to Oct 1997 
(cumulative total dose was 10,400mg), followed by immunosuppressive therapy with mitoxantrone (cumulative total 
dose was 254 mg) from 1997 to Jun 2007.  Natalizumab was started in Sep 2009 and the last infusion was given on
(b) (6)   Anti-JCV-antibodies were negative in Aug 2014.  The patient was admitted to hospital due to 
increasing character change for some weeks with reduction of drive and memory disturbance while on therapy with 
natalizumab.  On admission the patient reported increasing fatigue symptoms; she could cope with activities of daily
life only with efforts. She noticed mood swings, often was irritable, conflicts increased at home.  She denied newly 
occurred focal-neurological deficits.  For a longer period she noticed dragging, stabbing pain in the left lower leg as 
well as coordination disturbance of the left leg particularly when walking longer distances.  Prior to the last 
TYSABRI infusion she experienced a feverish infection, but since then had no infectious symptoms. The patients 
relatives (husband and daughter) reported that the patient presented with massive character change for two weeks 
with lack of drive and irritability, additionally with memory disturbance and orientation disturbance.  Neurological and
internal examinations were without pathological findings.  A CSF analysis on (b) (6)  showed the following:
cell count was 7 /  l, lactate 1.41mmol/l (reference range 0.6-2.5), abnormal albumin ratio, no BBB disturbance, no 
evidence of intrathecal synthesis in the ratio scheme according to Reiber, oligoclonal bands present in CSF 
(considered typical MS findings with borderline pleocytosis), and JCV DNA was positive with 216 copies / mL. 
Psychological testing resulted in distinct cognitive dysfunction and probable clinically relevant fatigue 
symptomatology.  The diagnosis of PML was established based on clinical symptoms, MRI findings, positive CSF 
JCV DNA, and serum positive for Anti-JCV antibodies. Therapy was initiated with Celsentri (maraviroc), mirtazapine
45 mg QD, and five days Privigen (intravenous immunoglobulins) 20g.  Levetiracetam was given as prophylaxis of 
epilepsy. It was decided not to perform immunoadsorption due to the frequent occurrence of immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) following discontinuation of TYSABRI and immunoadsorption. During hospital stay 
the patient s predominant symptoms were reduction of drive and disorientation in situation, space and time. The 
patient did not show understanding of her disease and had distinct memory disturbance, with increasing tendency 
to elope.  An EEG on (b) (6)  showed pathological findings with mild general alterations and left accentuated 
fronto-temporal regional brain function disturbance; no epileptic potentials.   Medications at discharge (on 25 Feb 
2015) included L-Thyroxin 50 g QD, Remergil (mirtazapine) 45mg QD, Celsentri 300mg BID, Levetiracetam 
500mg BID, and Dekristol 20,000IE once weekly. Causality was not assessed for PML.
Update 08 Oct 2015: Additional information was received from a neurologist via MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive, residing in a rehabilitation facility, and is not currently on MS therapy. The most 
recent MRI was performed on 01 Aug 2015; results were not provided. The patient's Karnofsky and EDSS scores 
were assessed on 20 Aug 2015 to be 30 (severely disabled; hospital admission is indicated although death not 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 84 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
imminent) and 9.5. The patient has been diagnosed with immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) 
which was determined by clinical symptoms (symptoms were not reported). The patient received corticosteroids 
pre-IRIS with Urbason (methylprednisolone) and post-IRIS with Urbason. Additional treatment for IRIS includes 
mirtazapine.  The outcome of the events of PML and IRIS was not reported. Causality was not reported for the 
events.