Upon internal review on 01-Feb-2016, the formulation was updated from solution for infusion to concentrate for 
solution for infusion.
This unsolicited case was received from Spain on 06-Mar-2015 from a neurologist (additional information was 
received on 09-Mar-2015 and both the information was processed together with clock start date: 06-Mar-2015). 
This case is cross referred to 2015SA029223 (same patient/same reporter).
This case involves a 39 year old male patient with MS who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(PML) while on treatment with natalizumab (Tysabri) and alemtuzumab (Lemtrada). 
Concomitant medication included interferon beta-1A (Avonex) for multiple sclerosis. No concurrent conditions, past 
drugs and medical history were reported.
On an unknown date in 2010, patient was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis with EDSS score of 1. In Feb-2012, 
patient experienced a first relapse (EDSS=2.5) and a second relapse in May-2012. On an unknown date in Jun-
2012, patient started treatment with intravenous natalizumab (dose, formulation, frequency, batch/lot number and 
expiration date: not reported) for multiple sclerosis. On an unknown date (01 year after initiating natalizumab), 
patient was tested positive for JCV antibody. On 30-Apr-2014, a new lesion in the cerebellopontine angle left was 
seen, which was clearly hyper intense and especially located in the central part of the middle cerebellar peduncle. It
was reported that this was a relatively typical localization for multiple sclerosis lesion in the posterior fossa. Further 
it was reported that additional four multiple sclerosis lesions were visible in the area of the internal capsule right, 
frontal left and in the occipital lobe right. These lesions had also typical multiple sclerosis features. Reportedly, in 
Aug-2014, patient experienced another relapse of multiple sclerosis. Also, in Aug-2014, the patient experienced 
new neurological symptoms that included pain, ataxia and tremor in upper left and lower right extremity. In Oct- 
2014 the patient had an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) that revealed new infratentorial lesions attributed to 
multiple sclerosis: 1 new GD enhancing pontine lesion. Additionally the patient had 1 new thalamic lesion and new 
linear, non-enhancing lesions in the frontal motor cortex. Further it was reported that the lesions were atypical in 
appearance. It was reported that one in the capsula interna right, which was growing slowly and extended into the 
thalamus, and two new subcortical thin hyper intense structures, which were absolutely not MS plaques, due to 
their extension and signal intensity. These lesions were growing extensively into gray and white matter and had 
some focal space occ. effect. It was also reported that their appearance was not typical for herpes, vascular or 
tumor growing lesions but could well represent beginning new PML infiltrations and their pattern of infiltration over 
time even more support the PML features. On 27-Oct-2014, the lesion in the cerebellopontine angle left and in the 
cerebellar peduncle had significantly enlarged. The same applied to the lesion in the internal capsule, right, which 
extended now into the lentiform nucleus. It was reported that In addition, there were two new hyperintense lesions 
in the precentral area, right>left, subcortical, going up to the cortex. It was reported that they were located nearly 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 98 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
symmetrical and had a configuration, which was atypical for multiple sclerosis. They partially involved the cortex, 
but were in fact located subcortically. They were sharply defined, hyperintense in T2 and contrast agent was not 
administered. All MRI findings were attributed to multiple sclerosis. The patient experienced another MS relapse in 
(b) (6)  (EDSS=3.5). Patient was hospitalized at that time and treated with steroids (unspecified) for presumptive 
multiple sclerosis relapse. The patient improved enough to return to work but was left with residual ataxia. The 
patient received his last natalizumab infusion on (b) (6)  (received over 2 years of treatment with 
natalizumab). Following this infusion the patient presented with worsening ataxia in upper left limb, dysphasia, gait 
and coordination problems (EDSS=3.5). These symptoms were attributed to multiple sclerosis, the patient received 
a course of steroids (unspecified) and was considered to have "very aggressive disease", mainly with motor 
symptoms and no visual or cognitive impairment. Reportedly in (b) (6)  treatment with natalizumab was decided 
to stop. It was reported that discussed with colleagues and decision was taken to wait 1 month after the last 
natalizumab infusion before initiating alemtuzumab. It was also reported that the patient had experienced several 
months of clinical deterioration while receiving natalizumab prior to initial treatment with alemtuzumab. Also, based 
on the treating physician's assessment, clinical and radiological evidence of PML was present while the patient was
receiving natralizumab prior to intial treatment with alemtuzumab. On 15-Dec-2014, patient started treatment with 
intravenous alemtuzumab, concentrate for solution for infusion, at a daily dose of 12 mg (batch/lot number and 
expiration date: not reported) for multiple sclerosis following protocol.  Also, patient received treatment with steroids
(unspecified) at a dose of 1g (on day 1, 2 and 3) and 500 mg (on day 4 and 5) and plasma exchange during this 
time for presumed MS activity. On 16-Dec-2015, 45 minutes after finalizing the second infusion of alemtuzumab, 
the patient experienced a mild skin rash (unspecified) that spontaneously lead to improvement (nos) and required 
no treatment regimen amendment. On the fifth day (19-Dec-2014), during pre-treatment (unspecified) 
administration, he experienced a non-pruritic skin rash in his upper and lower limbs, that tended to spontaneously 
abate and did not require any infusion regimen amendment and he finished his complete five day course. On (b)(6)
(b) (6)  the patient returned to hospital and reported fatigue, gait and motor difficulties and spastic paralysis. This
was attributed to a potential brain stem or spinal cord relapse. These symptoms were described as gradual but fast 
(i.e. not acute) onset during (b) (6)  until presentation on (b) (6)  On (b) (6)  the patient was 
treated with a course of steroids (unspecified) and plasma exchange. It was reported that no MRI was obtained as 
patient was too claustrophobic. On (b) (6)  patient was hospitalized. On (b) (6)  a lumbar puncture was 
performed and results included negative PCR for JCV DNA. On (b) (6)  the patient had an MRI which showed
enlargement of the non-enhancing frontal lobe lesions (initially seen on MRI in Oct-2014), persistent enhancement 
of pontine lesion, and newly enhancement of a pre-existing cerebellar lesion. It was reported that plasma exchange 
was done as 5 sessions on an alternately daily schedule from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  On (b) (6)  the 
MRI was repeated, showing no changes. On (b) (6)  the lesion in the capsula interna right had further 
enlarged, now up to the thalamus. In the precentral area both lesions had severely increased, left>right, with an 
infiltration, into the cortex, but not into the gyri, their boarders to white matter were not sharped edged,  there was a 
slight space occup effect. It was reported that the lesion in the cerebellopontine angle left had decreased and a 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 99 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
doubtful new lesion was located sub cortically in the area of the Sylvan fissure left. On (b) (6)  the lumbar 
puncture showed 42 copies/ml of JCV DNA by PCR. It was reported that progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) was diagnosed and attributed to natalizumab, with onset in retrospect in or before Oct-
2014 based on reclassification of frontal lesions in Oct-2014 MRI by the treating physician. Also, due to the 
patient E s continued clinical deterioration and evolution of MRI findings, the patient was evaluated for PML. As of 
(b) (6)  patient's clinical status was described as tetraplegic with difficulty speaking, hospitalized in 
neurological ward, not ICU required, not receiving mechanical ventilation. The reporting neurologist concluded that 
based on a retrospective review of a MRI done in Oct-2014, the event of PML developed while the patient was on 
treatment with natalizumab. The PML diagnosis however, was not made until after the patient received a first 
course of treatment with alemtuzumab in Dec-2014. On (b) (6)  the patient died due to progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy (PML). It was unknown whether autopsy was performed. It was also reported that interferon 
beta-1a was not related to the PML. Further, it was reported that with alemtuzumab, an induction agent, things were
more complicated because its action can E t be reserved. Reportedly, if carry over PML is present post 
alemtuzumab before reconstitution of your immune system, the patient is more likely to succumb to the PML.
Action taken:  Unknown for natalizumab and no action taken for alemtuzumab
Seriousness criteria: inpatient/prolonged hospitalization.
Reporter's causality assessment:  Not related to alemtuzumab; Related to natalizumab
Company causality assessment:  Not associated with alemtuzumab
Upon internal review on 11-Mar-2015, the narrative and lab values have been amended.
Additional information was received on 13-Mar-2015. Suspect product (interferon beta-1A (Avonex)) was updated 
as concomitant medication. Event outcome was updated from not recovered to fatal. Date of death was added. 
Clinical course was updated. Text was amended accordingly.
Additional information was received on 01-Apr-2015. Additional laboratory data (MRI of 30-Apr-2014, 27-Oct-2014 
and (b) (6) ) was added. Clinical course updated and text amended accordingly.
Upon internal review on 01-Feb-2016, this case was identified as a duplicate of case 2016SA001841. Hence, all the
information will be merged in the master case 2015SA029961 and 2016SA001841 would be nullified and deleted. 
Clinical course was updated. Text was amended accordingly.  The formulation was updated from solution for 
infusion to concentrate for solution for infusion.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 100 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information