This spontaneous report was received from a 54-year-old White/ Caucasian female patient, reporting on herself, 
from the United States; Local Case ID: 00109679.
The patient's height was 68 inches and her weight was 150 pounds. The patient's medical history and concurrent 
conditions included: hernia (pinched nerves), hysterectomy on an unspecified date in 2006 (8 years ago), kidney 
removal on an unspecified date in 2012, kidney stone on an unspecified date in 2012 (sitting on liver, pancreas and 
gall bladder), no alcohol use, no smoking and severe pain (radiates throughout whole abdominal wall from a poorly 
healed incision from the kidney removal). The patient had previously experienced allergy while taking iodine. The 
patient had no history of drug abuse, illicit drug use. The patient was treated with tapentadol hydrochloride (tablet, 
oral, batch unknown) 100 mg twice daily, initiated on an unspecified date in 2013, in the fall or winter, for severe 
pain (abdominal pain along the incision of a previous surgery). Concomitant medications included estratest HS and 
hydrocodone. The patient experienced short term memory lapses on an unspecified date in 2013, since the time 
she started therapy with tapentadol hydrochloride. The patient stated that she would get up to do something and 
would forget what she had gotten up for, in the few seconds that she would take to stand up (short memory lapses).
The patient felt nervous about taking the medication as it was 'so new'. On an unspecified date in 2013, the patient 
reported that she had break-through pain and 45 minutes after administration, she would feel tired (felt tired) which 
would last for about an hour and half. The patient spontaneously remembered old memories since the time she 
started therapy with tapentadol hydrochloride. As a treatment for the short term memory lapses, the patient would 
'really focus' on what she was intending to do and the short term memory lapses, resolved, on an unspecified date 
in 2014, after about four months. The patient reported that tapentadol hydrochloride 100 mg, did not work and as 
treatment, it was discontinued (withdrawn) on an unspecified date in JAN-2014. The patient was then prescribed 
with non-company suspect drug, buprenorphine (patch, transdermal) at an unspecified dose and frequency, 
initiated on an unspecified date for pain. The patient stated that buprenorphine attacked her system and she 
became 'violently ill', clarified as she lost equilibrium, experienced a rash and fever on an unspecified date in (b) (6)
(b) (6)
. As a treatment, the patient was hospitalized and buprenorphine was discontinued (withdrawn) on an 
unspecified date in (b) (6) . The patient had recovered from rash, lost equilibrium and fever on an unspecified 
date in (b) (6) . The patient was discharged from the hospital on (b) (6) . The patient was then prescribed 
with tapentadol hydrochloride 150 mg twice daily on an unspecified date in JAN-2014. The patient started with a 
new job and while she was in training, she 'tore another hernia', clarified as she felt extreme pain along her 
abdominal incision, on an unspecified date in FEB-2014 (abdominal incisional pain). The patient's dose of 
Print Time: 14-JAN-2016 03:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 2 of 12
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
tapentadol hydrochloride was increased to 200 mg, as a part of treatment, on an unspecified date in FEB-2014. 
The patient reported that 200 mg tapentadol hydrochloride worked only for 8-9 hours, in controlling her pain. On 19-
DEC-2014, the patient missed her morning dose. The patient had not recovered from felt nervous, abdominal 
incisional pain, break-through pain and felt tired, had recovered from missed dose on 19-DEC-2014 and the 
outcome for did not work, was not reported. This report was associated with a product quality complaint (PQC) and 
the reference number was provided as: 10000236123. 
This report was not serious.
Labeling and seriousness assessment.
LLT incision site pain (non-serious) USPI unlabeled; CCDS unlabeled; SmPC NA; IB unlabeled.
LLT Missed dose (non-serious) USPI unlabeled; CCDS unlabeled; SmPC NA; IB unlabeled.
LLT Lack of drug effect (non-serious) USPI labeled; CCDS labeled; SmPC NA; IB labeled.
LLT Breakthrough pain (non-serious) USPI labeled; CCDS labeled; SmPC NA; IB labeled.
LLT Memory Impaired (non-serious) USPI labeled; CCDS labeled; SmPC NA; IB labeled.
LLT Nervous (non-serious) USPI labeled; CCDS labeled; SmPC NA; IB labeled.
LLT Tiredness (non-serious) USPI labeled; CCDS labeled; SmPC NA; IB labeled.