AER 1554219 is a spontaneous case received on 19/Mar/2015 from a physician via company representative and 
concerns a female patient who developed low back pain, parasthesia, spasms of muscle and possible progressive 
multifocal leucoencephalopathy was treated with rituximab (Rituxan) and mycophenolate mofetil (Cellcept).
Patient's medical history included concentration and memory problems, tingling and numbness in the 
feet/hands/genital area (Feb/2012), optic neuritis, pain in her left lower head and neck, right arm weakness 
(Aug/2014), left arm numbness (May/2014), legs weakness, one day of confusion left face/arm and leg numb, white
spots in the left eye (May/2014) and JC virus antibody positive (Jul/2013). There was no history of 
immunodeficiency, chronic viral infections, HIV, bone marrow or solid bone transplant, herpes simplex, herpes 
zoster, opportunistic infections, or CMV Pneumocystic carinii pneumonia and no known CNS pathology. 
Concomittant medication included vitamin D3, multivitamins, tramadol, methylphenidate Hydrochloride, lyrica, 
drospirenone/ethinyl estradiol and baclofen. Her past drugs included rituximab, cyclophosphamide and techfidone. 
Her concurrent conditions were not reported.
In Sep/2000, the patient was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and had transverse myelitis, optic neuritis an Left 
arm numbness. In Apr/2014, she started the therapy with mycophenolate mofetil 1000 mg 2, 1 days for multiple 
sclerosis. In Jul/2014, she started therapy with rituximab (10mg/L solution) 1000 mg once in 2 weeks for the same 
indication. It was reported that now her B cell count should be lowest, likely being completely depleted. She had 
increased urinary frequency and urgency which was reported that it could be due to possible bladder infection. On 
an unspecified date, she developed low back pain, parasthesia, spasms of muscle and possible progressive 
multifocal leucoencephalopathy (PML). It was reported that her worsening of symptoms could be due to PML. For 
treatment of spasms of muscle she was administered 1/2 tablet of baclofen in the morning and noon and 2-3 
tablets at bedtime. For treatment of low back pain, the pain down the legs and in the lower back, she started 
therapy with pregabalin. For treatment of paraesthesia, she took pregabalin and tramadol. It was reported that, she 
never had any of the symptoms which were asked on the form.
At the time of this report, the outcome for the events low back pain, parasthesia, spasms of muscle and possible 
progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy was not reported. The therapy status with rituximab and 
mycophenolate mofetil was not provided.
The reporter did not assess causal relationship for the events low back pain, paraesthesia, spasms of muscle and 
possible progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy with rituximab and mycophenolate mofetil.
The company assessed the possible progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy as medically significant.
No more further information was provided.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 153 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Additional information was received on 30/Sep/2015. Following information was added to the case: start date and 
end date of rituximab was added, route of administration for rituximab was added, suspect drug added: 
mycophenolate mofetil, past drugs were added, Patient medical history was added:JC virus antibody positive.
Additional information received on 23/Nov/2015. Following information added to the case: New secondary reporters
added as consumer and company representative. Event description updated as she never had any of the 
symptoms which were asked on the form.