Medically Significant
A neurologist reported via a company field force associate that a 20-year-old female patient on TYSABRI infusions 
(natalizumab, unknown dose, IV, unknown frequency) for an unknown indication from an unknown date to Oct 2013
had been experiencing minor cognitive disturbances (onset unknown). On a not reported date, magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) showed not further specified changes. Since Oct 2013, cerebrospinal fluid  was tested for JC-virus 
by PCR (polymerase chain reaction)  four times in specialized labs. JC-virus was not detected. However, the 
neurologist suspects that the patient has progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML, onset unknown). No 
treatment information was provided. The outcome for the event suspicion of PML is unknown. Medical history and 
concomitant medication were not reported. The causality was assessed as unknown. TYSABRI therapy was 
withdrawn in Oct 2013.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 148 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 20 Nov 2014:  The treating neurologist reported that he could not provide further details since the patient 
was not seen in his office any more.  No further information provided.
Update 24 Nov 2014:  Additional information was provided from the treating neurologist.  The neurologist stated 
that the patient was hospitalized (dates unknown) in a university hospital where she was diagnosed with PML.  In 
the meantime, the patient had distinctly improved and nearly recovered from PML without sequelae.  The 
neurologist estimated that the patient's EDSS value decreased about 0.5 points due to the PML.
Update 05 Feb 2015:  The mother of the female patent on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) from 01 Mar 2011 to 01 Oct 
2013 reported that the 21 year old female patient experienced PML (onset (b) (6) ) and epilepsy (onset (b) (6)
) for which she was hospitalized for at the university hospital. The subject was diagnosed with MS on 01 Jan 
2009.  Concomitant illnesses included gastrointestinal disorders treated with pantoprazole.  The mother stated the 
epilepsy was probably caused by PML because the epilepsy was not pre-existing.  Treatment included Lariam 
(mefloquine) for PML and levetiracetam for epilepsy.  PML resolved with sequelae on unknown date and epilepsy 
was still ongoing.  The reporter assessed causality between TYSABRI and both PML and epilepsy as possibly 
related.
Update 31 Mar 2015:  Upon internal review, this case is considered low-suspect for PML and the final call is due to 
lack of MRI and CSF evidence despite multiple attempts to gather additional information.
Update 04 May 2015: A report was received from literature via an abstract presented at the 53rd Annual Meeting of 
the American Society of Neuroradiology (ANSR), Chicago, IL. : Krueger K, Krueger P, Lehmann H. Three 
Difference Faces of a Uninvited Guest? Therapy-Associated Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
during Multiple Sclerosis (MS)-Treatment.  24 Apr 2014.  The authors presented the specific clinical and 
radiological features of three female patients with relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) and therapy associated with 
PML.  Two of the three patients received TYSABRI (MCN: 2014BI010887 and MCN: 2012BI033094), and the third 
was on monotherapy with interferon beta-1a (see MCN: 2014BI062787).  In all three cases PML lesions were 
identified best on FLAIR and DIR images (dates of tests unknown), and the lesions typically involved subcortical U 
fibers and did not significantly enhance.  PML lesions from patients on TYSABRI were detected incidentally during 
routine MRI.  Peak PML was reached within three months after lesion progression "per continuitatem" like 
unstoppable invasion fronts from difference foci at different speed and momentum.  Upcoming spotty gadolinium 
enhancement marked transition to IRIS (onset unknown), which passed off much smoother in the patient with 
monthly IV prednisolone pulses, compared to vast skeletization of the cortex in the patent with inconsequent 
prednisolone therapy (presume prednisolone therapy as treatment for this patient).  During the monitoring period for
up to 4 years, all cases showed gradual and significant changes in MRI respectively preceding the relevant clinical 
events.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 149 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 14 May 2015:  Upon internal review, this case is now considered high suspect for PML based on consistent 
radiological findings and clinical symptoms.