AER 1555352 is a spontaneous case, received on 24/Mar/2015 from a physician via company representative and 
concerns a 51 year old female patient who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and polyoma 
virus infection whilst being treated with rituximab (Mabthera).
The patient's medical history included renal replacement therapy for progressive renal failure, porphyria cutanea 
tarda and hypertension. There was no history of HIV, bone marrow and solid bone transplant, herpes simplex, 
opportunistic infection, CMV pneumocystic carinli pneumonia and CNS lupus, CNS lymphoma. Past drugs included 
sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim (Bactrim DS), methyldopa, hydrocortisone, loratadine, paracetamol. Concurrent 
conditions included end stage renal disease, chronic hepatitis c infection and immunodeficiency. Concomitant 
medications included ramipril, furosemide, lercanidipine hydrochloride, hydrochlorothiazide, pantoprazole, 
prednisolone, methylprednisolone, ribavirin, boceprevir and  peg-interferon alfa 2a.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 156 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On 05/Feb/2013, she was diagnosed with cryoglobulinemic MPGN. On 28/Feb/2013, the patient started therapy 
with intravenous rituximab 525 mg once weekly  for renal vasculitis and cryoglobulinemic MPGN (Hepatitis C 
related) , Later (after 2 weeks from rituximab course), she had suspected progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). On 21/Mar/2013, she was discontinued rituximab therapy. Baseline of pre-event lab 
data provided as CD8 lymphocytes (CD8) was 304, CD4 lymphocytes (CD4) was 620, white blood cell count 
(WBC) was 10.6, absolute neutrophil count (ANC) was 9.2. On 06/Mar/2015, the patient developed progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy and polyoma virus infection for which she put on disability. On 09/Mar/2015, she 
performed MRI brain which showed symmetrical high signal intensity within both cerebellar hemisphere, on 
10/Mar/2015, CSF analysis showed polyoma virus PCR, first sample equivocal, second sample plus, later on 
25/Mar/2015, she again performed CSF analysis which showed polyoma virus (+).  On 26/Mar/2015,  IgM was 1.54 
g/L, IgG was 3.2 g/L. 
At the time of the report, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, polyoma virus infection were persisting. 
The physician assessed the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, polyoma virus infection as related to 
rituximab.
No further information was provided.
Additional information received on 22/Apr/2015, following information added to the case: Additional reporter, 
patient's details (initials, date of birth, weight and height). medical history (renal replacement therapy for progressive
renal failure and porphyria cutanea tarda and hypertension). Therapy details of rituximab (dose, route, frequency, 
start date, stop date and indication). Concurrent conditions (end stage renal disease, chronic hepatitis c infection 
and immunodeficiency). Concomitant medications (ramipril, furosemide, lercanidipine hydrochloride, 
hydrochlorothiazide, pantoprazole, prednisolone, methylprednisolone, ribavirin, boceprevir and  peg-interferon alfa 
2a). Past drugs (sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim (Bactrim Ds), methyldopa, hydrocortisone, loratadine, 
paracetamol). Event changed suspected progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy  to progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. New event polyoma virus infection (JC virus). Outcome of events progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy and polyoma virus infection updated to persisting (previously not reported). Causality updated
to related for events progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and polyoma virus infection with drug rituximab. 
Lab test (Mri brain, CSF analysis, IgM, IgG).
This case is cross-referenced with AER 1569624, same patient (different event).
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 157 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information