Information was received on 16-Mar-2015. This is an unsponsored study, published case reported by an 
investigator referring to a 66 year-old female patient who experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
following bendamustine hydrochloride (Teva product cannot be ruled out) treatment. The patient, (b) (6)  was 
enrolled in (b) (6)
Citations Included
 - Lane MA, Renga V, Pachner AR, Cohen JA. late occurrence of PML in a patient treated for lymphoma with 
immunomodulatory chemotherapies, bendamustine, rituximab, and ibritumomab tiuxetan. Case Reports in 
Neurological Medicine. 2015; vol. 2015. 
Other suspect drugs used were rituximab (non Teva) unknown route 700 mg cyclic for stage IV follicular non-
Hodgkin's lymphoma starting from 25-Oct-2012 for 4 cycles, one cycle at 690 mg on 24-Jan-2013, and 470 mg on 
day 1 (28-Mar-2013) and day 8 (04-Apr-2013) and ibritumomab tiuxetan (non Teva) unknown route and frequency 
for stage IV follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma on 04-Apr-2013.
Current Conditions included rheumatoid arthritis, coronary artery disease, hypertension, and stage IV follicular non-
Hodgkins lymphoma; and Procedures included omentectomy, anterior cervical discectomy, and anterior cervical 
fusion.
Concomitant medications included hydroxychloroquine. 
The patient received bendamustine hydrochloride for stage IV follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma according to the 
following dosage regimen(s): 01-Nov-2012 - 02-Nov-2012: intravenous 168 mg, cyclic for 1 cycle and 29-Nov-2012 
- 25-Jan-2013: intravenous 167 mg, cyclic for 3 cycles
In (b) (6)  the patient was hospitalized with progressively worsening left hemiparesis, left foot drop and 
increasing falls over the previous 4 weeks. It was noted that she had a total hip arthroplasty performed 4 months 
prior to her presentation and recovered well after her surgery and was ambulating with a walker. Over the same 
time frame, she developed increased urinary frequency, incomplete voiding, urinary incontinence as well as 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 167 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
constipation and difficulty swallowing without overt aspiration. There was no lymphadenopathy and no additional 
significant findings on her general exam. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of her brain showed increased flair 
signal intensity in the right frontal region, pons and posterior right hemisphere without enhancement and a cerebral 
spinal fluid (CSF) John Cunningham (JC) virus PCR was negative. She was discharged with visiting rehabilitation 
services, but had progressive weakness over the course of 3 weeks and was readmitted due to recurrent falls. On 
neurological exam, she had a new left homonymous hemianopia and a decline in strength with inability to dorsiflex 
and plantarflex against gravity on the left side. A repeat MRI revealed progression of the areas of signal alteration 
and enhancement within the subcortical white matter bilaterally increased in extent compared to the previous study 
and positron emission tomography (PET)/computerized tomogram (CT) of the head showed decreased metabolism
in the regions of signal alteration identified on the MRI. Tests for JC virus (JCV) came back positive and she was 
diagnosed with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML).  In Jun-2014, her exam had improved mildly 
with increase in distal strength on her left side and improvement of visual field deficits, peripheral vision and 
functional status and she was discharged from rehabilitation.
Lab data included
 - 2014: John Cunningham (JC) virus test Positive anti-JCV antibody
(b) (6)  Neurological exam: 4 out of 5 strength in left arm, 3+ out of 5 strength in left leg, 3 out of 5 strength in 
ankle dorsiflexion/plantarflexion; deep tendon reflexes were brisk bilaterally and more pronounced on the left side, 
there was plantar extensor and right flexor response
(b) (6)  Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain: Increased flair signal intensity in the fith frontal region, pons 
and posterior right hemisphere without enhancement
(b) (6)  MRI cervical and thoracic spine: unremarkable
(b) (6)  Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) analysis: Mildly elevated protein (56), normal glucose and minimally elevated
lymphocyte-predominant nucleated cells (4), with no erythrocytes. Qualitative John Cunningham (JC) virus PCR, 
oligoclonal banding and basic myelin protein were negative.
-2014 (three weeks after initial discharge) Neurological exam: New homonymous hemianopia and a decline in 
strength, with inability to dorsiflex and plantarflex against gravity on the left side
-2014 (three weeks after initial discharge) MRI: Revealed progression of the areas of signal alteration and 
enhancement within subcortical white matter bilaterally increased in extent compared to the previous study
-2014 (three weeks after initial discharge) Positron emission tomography (PET)/computerized tomography (CT) 
scan of the head: Decreased metabolism in the regions of signal alteration identified on MRI
-2014 (three weeks after initial discharge) CSF analysis: Showed similar findings as previously with slightly elevated
protein and mildly elevated cell count. JC virus PCR came back positive (>10 DNA copies/mL)
-Jun-2014 Neurological exam: Improved mildly with increase in distal strength on her left side and improvement of 
visual field deficits and peripheral vision and improvement in functional status
-Aug-2014 MRI: Mild progression of signal alteration with a decrease in cortical enhancement 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 168 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The outcome of PML was reported as recovering / resolving.
The authors assessed the following event with respect to bendamustine hydrochloride, rituximab and ibritumomab 
tiuxetan : 
 - Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (seriousness: Hospitalization; causality: Possible)
The authors indicated that the use of chemotherapeutic agents such as bendamustine hydrochloride, rituximab and
ibritumomab tiuxetan shouldwarrant monitoring for PML.
Additional information was received on 31-Mar-2015. New or updated information included: The report type was 
updated to unsponsored study, published, the reporter was updated to investigator and the study title, start and stop
dates and dosages for suspect study drugs and patient initials and study ID were added. No further information is 
expected.
The Astellas Medical Reviewer assessed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as serious due to 
hospitalization and the causal relationship to Bendamustine hydrochloride as possible based on the temporal 
association present with the suspect drug possible toxic effects to central nervous system present.  The use of 
rituximab and ibritumomab tiuxetan is a confounder.