Based on additional information received on 19-Mar-2015 from the patient via (b) (6)  the case was 
upgraded to serious from non-serious as the serious events of lost eye sight in left eye (medically significant) and 
MS exacerbation (hospitalization) were added.
Initial information regarding this solicited case from United States was received on 07-Jun-2013 from a patient via 
(b) (6)
This case involves an adult female patient (patient id: (b) (6) ), who got tooth pulled, experienced increased 
bleeding time, lost eye sight in left eye, MS exacerbation, eyesight got worse, pain in eyes, memory is bad, 
worsening problems with bladder, her sling may have moved, more frequency and JCV positive; unknown duration 
after receiving treatment with teriflunomide (Aubagio).
No past drugs, medical history and concomitant drugs were reported. 
concurrent condition: bladder disorder nos
On 25-May-2013, the patient initiated treatment with oral teriflunomide at a dose of 14 mg, daily (formulation, 
batch/lot number and expiration date: not reported) for multiple sclerosis. 
On an unspecified date, the patient got tooth pulled and had increased bleeding time. The patient had to return to 
the dentist as the bleeding would not spot, the bleeding has since stopped. Patient was not eating for 2 days, she 
also did not feel well and was in a lot of pain from the procedure. On an unspecified date, the patient's eye sight got
worse, lost eye sight in left eye, and pain in eyes. Reportedly, eye issues also related to another disease condition. 
The patient reported that memory was bad and had worsening problems with bladder, her sling may have moved, 
more frequency (onset date: unspecified). The patient reported a hospitalization in (b) (6)  related to MS 
exacerbation (onset date: unspecified). The patient continued having relapses for 2 months. It was reported that 
HCP considered switch to Tysabri but patient tested JCV positive (onset date: unspecified). As per patient, 
teriflunomide was the only option at this time.
Action taken: No action taken
Outcome: Recovered for MS exacerbation
Not recovered for worsening problems with bladder, her sling may have moved, more frequency
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 172 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Unknown for all other events
Reporter causality: Not reported
Company causality: Associated
Seriousness criteria: Medically significant for the event of lost eye sight in left eye
Hospitalization for the event of MS exacerbation
Additional information was received on 19-Mar-2015 and 20-Mar-2015 (processed with csd of 19-Mar-2015) from 
the patient via (b) (6)
The case was upgraded to serious from non-serious as the serious events of lost eye sight in left eye (medically 
significant) and MS exacerbation (hospitalization) were added. The patient id and gender of the patient was added. 
Concurrent condition of bladder disorder nos added. The events of eyesight got worse, pain in eyes, memory is 
bad, worsening problems with bladder, her sling may have moved, more frequency and JCV positive were added. 
Text was amended accordingly.