Reference number 2015AP007682 is a spontaneous literature case received on 17-Mar-2015, pertaining to a 58-
year-old woman who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) during treatment with 
mycophenolate mofetil. 
The patients relevant medical history and concomitant conditions diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus in 
1978. Concomitant medication was reported to include prednisone, for the treatment of an unknown indication. Co-
suspect medication included belimumab. 
In October 2012, the patient presented with arthritis, rash, thrombopenia, and anemia. Mycophenolate mofetil 1500 
mg bid (frequency and route of administration unknown) was introduced for the indication of systemic lupus 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 189 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
erythematosus (SLE). It was reported that the patients SLE was still active in January 2013. On an unknown date 
belimumab (dosage and route of administration unknown) was started with a good clinical response. In July 2013, 
she presented with a 3 week history of fatigue, apathy, and aphasia. Her brain MRI revealed a large confluent white
matter hyper sensitivities. A positive PCR of John Cunningham virus in her cerebrospinal fluid confirmed the 
diagnosis of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL 
LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY). After interruption of all immunosuppressive medication, an initial neurological 
deterioration, probably explained by the immunological reconstitution phenomena was observed. A second MRI 
revealed increased diffuse white matter oedema. In the third week the woman progressively got better. One year 
later, a moderate aphasia and executive function deficits still persisted, rendering her unable to lead an 
independent life.
On an unknown date mycophenolate mofetil was withdrawn. At the time of reporting the patient had not recovered 
from the event.
Author comment: SLE itself and immunosuppressive agents, including mycophenolate mofetil, could have 
predisposed this patient to PML, but because of the temporal evolution, we believe that belimumab was the 
principal contributor.
Citation: Leblanc-Trudeau C, Masetto A, Bocti C. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy associated with 
belimumab in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus. J-Rheumatol 2015; 42(3):551-552
The manufacturer of mycophenolate mofetil was not identified; however, the Apotex brand of product cannot be 
excluded from consideration.