This solicited report was initially received from a consumer (patient's mother) in the United States on 12-Mar-2015. 
Follow-up information was received from a physician on 05-May-2015.  Additional information was received from 
the patient's mother on 06-Jan-2016.  A 32 year old female patient with multiple sclerosis (MS) experienced 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (fatal) while on Ampyra.
The patient's past medical history included MS.  The patient's renal function was normal prior to starting Ampyra.
Concomitant medications at onset included Detrol La (tolterodine tartrate), unspecified multivitamins, fish oil, 
cranberry 200 mg, Xanax (alprazolam), stool softener, and baclofen. Additional dosing information, therapy dates, 
and indications were not reported. 
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on an unspecified date in Jun-2010 at 10 mg every 12 hours orally for MS. Tysabri
was reported as co-suspect starting on an unspecified date, intravenously every month; dosage and indication was 
not provided. 
On an unspecified date, the patient's mother reported that the patient only has a few hours to live. Upon follow-up 
on 05-May-2015, the physician reported that the patient experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(PML) on an unspecified date in Jan-2015. On an unspecified date, the patient was hospitalized. The patient 
received unspecified treatment. The patient died on an unspecified date in (b) (6)  No autopsy was performed. 
On an unspecified date, an abnormal brain MRI was consistent with PML.  On 06-Jan-2016, the patient's mother re-
reported that the patient had died.
The outcome of the event was fatal.
Ampyra action taken was withdrawn.
The reporter (patient's mother) did not assess the relationship between Ampyra and the event. The reporter 
(physician) assessed the relationship between Ampyra and the event was not related. The physician assessed the 
causality as possibly related to Tysabri.
Follow-up information received from the physician on 05-May-2015 provided: indication for Ampyra, dosing regimen
for Tysabri, causality, renal function history, MRI results, cause of death, no autopsy was performed and start date 
of PML. This information has been incorporated into the narrative.
Follow-up information received from the patient's mother on 06-Jan-2016 included re-report of patient's death.  This
information has been incorporated into the narrative.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 164 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information