AER 1556274 is a spontaneous case, received on 24/Mar/2015 from a hematologist via a company representative 
and concerns a female patient of unknwon age who developed suspicion of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy while being treated with rituximab (Mabthera). 
The patients medical history, concurrent conditions and past drugs were not reported. Concomitant medications 
included  prednisone, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine ( Mini-CHOP chemotherapy), valaciclovir 
hydrochloride and sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim. 
In Jul/2013, the patient diagnosed with follicular lymphoma, with a suspicion of immediate transformation into 
aggressive lymphoma (Richters syndrome) according to the PET scan. But this transformation was not confirmed 
by the lymph node biopsy. In 2013, the patient received 6 cycles of rituximab, prednisone, doxorubicin, 
cyclophosphamide, vincristine (R-Mini-CHOP: dose, route, form and frequency were not reported). The last cycle 
was in the end of Dec/2013 with a partial good response (lymph nodes remained moderately hypermetabolic on 
PET scan). At the beginning of 2014, maintenance treatment with rituximab was initiated, the last infusion was 
performed in mid Dec/2014. Around (b) (6)  temporal spatial disorientation was occured then visual agnosia 
and behavior disorders (knowing that the patients husband passed away in (b) (6) ). She was hospitalized for a 
cerebral scan which was normal. After discharge from the hospital, disorders were worsened. The patient was re-
hospitalized. Brain MRI showed abnormal T2 signals in the cerebral areas compatible with visual disorders and in 
frontal area. Two lumbar punctures showed normal cellularity, normal glycorrhachia, a slight hyperproteinorachia, 
and viral screening tests did not show any abnormality. Also viral PCR was negative for  John Cunningham (JC) 
virus, twice, knowing that the laboratory detection threshold was 200 copies/microliter, therefore not very sensitive. 
However MRI appearance suggested progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, but cerebral localization of 
aggressive lymphoma was not ruled out. Cerebral biopsy was proposed to the patient who refused it. Control MRI 
was scheduled in around 2 weeks. At the time of this report, the patient was clinically stable with a slight 
improvement of visual agnosia and behavior disorders. No other concomitant drugs were suspected. During 
treatment with rituximab the patient had also received valaciclovir hydrochloride and sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim
for prophylaxis. 
At the time of the report, suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was persisting and it was not 
reported if therapy with rituximab was ongoing or not. 
The physician did not assess the causal relationship of suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
with rituximab. 
The french imputability for rituximab concerning suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was 
chronology 2 (C2) semiology 2 (S2), imputability 2 (I2). 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 176 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
No further information was provided.