The following is a revised narrative incorporating follow-up information received on 27-Mar-2014 which included 
laboratory data with clarification of prior lab value and event details.
This spontaneous case was reported by physician via Takeda Company Representative on 18-Mar-2015 (reference
number: PPD 1-961E1Z).
A male patient (age and ethnicity: not reported) started therapy with Entyvio (vedolizumab) 300 mg intravenous 
infusion an unknown date for an unknown indication.
The relevant medical history and concomitant medications were not reported.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 197 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On an unknown date, after receiving the second dose of Entyvio, the patient experienced blurred vision (serious 
event). The prescribing gastroenterologist referred the patient to a neurologist who tested the patient for the JC ( 
John Cunningham) Virus. It was clarified that the JC virus test result was simply positive not three times the normal 
value as initially reported . The JC virus test result was 3.7 (<0.2 - negative, 0.2-0.4 - indeterminate, >0.4 - positive, 
with no units provided). 
The patient did not have an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) and there was no intension to do so. 
On an unknown date, the patient was evaluated by an ophthalmologist (retinal specialist) and was diagnosed with 
central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO; serious event) with "likely inflammatory cause". Prednisone was reduced from
60 mg per day to 40 mg per day with follow-up planned in two weeks
The patient was seen in the gastroenterologist's (reporter's) office a week ago and was reported that the patient 
was doing better. Patient's vision has returned, "no more problems."
Entyvio was been and patient was being treated with "high dose steroids" at the time of this report. 
The physician's causality assessment was definite for the events JC virus test positive and vision blurred for 
Entyvio. The reporter did not provide the causality assessment between  event central retinal vein occlusion and 
Entyvio administration.
Additional information has been requested and the case will be updated upon receipt of follow up details.
Company Comment: The available information is insufficient to assess causality between the events reported and 
drug administered. We are requesting additional information for this case and will update it accordingly upon 
receipt.