P15-03018:
This case is from a published literature article reporting on a 55-year-old man with subacute progression of 
symptoms of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, and immune reconstitution while on HAART with 
nevirapine, zidovudine, and lamivudine for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. This case has been rated serious
based on BI internal medical judgement.
The man was diagnosed as having AIDS in March 2000 after presenting with profound neutropenia and bacterial 
gingivitis. He had an HIV RNA load of 3372 copies/mL and a CD4 cell count of 0.18 x 10E9/L. He was started on a 
regimen of zidovudine, lamivudine, and efavirenz. Because of his neutropenia, he was placed on a maintenance 
dose of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor given subcutaneously twice a week. Two months later, his CD4 cell 
count had increased to 0.44 x 10E9/L, and his HIV RNA load was undetectable (<50 copies/mL).
In September 2000, while the patient continued to receive HAART, he complained of gait instability, slurred speech,
weakness, and double vision. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of his brain performed at another institution 
reported increased T2 signal-associated lesions in the cerebellum and left cerebellar peduncle, the midbrain, the 
pons, and the basal ganglia. His cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed a normal cell count and protein and glucose 
levels. It was negative for viral, bacterial, fungal, and mycobacterial cultures. His CD4 cell count was measured at 
0.40 x 10E9/L, and his HIV RNA load was less than 50 copies/mL. His medications were switched to zidovudine, 
lamivudine, and nevirapine over concerns that the neurologic symptoms were aggravated by efavirenz.
In November 2000, he presented to the authors' institution with subacute progression of his symptoms. He 
complained of diplopia, slurred speech, ataxic gait, and numbness and clumsiness on the left side of his body. 
Neurologic examination revealed an alert and oriented man with ataxic dysarthria and ataxic gait. Hehad limb 
dysmetria of the left side. There was minimal nystagmus on left lateral gaze. Diffuse hyperreflexia was present, but 
there were no Babinski signs. Findings on the rest of his examination were normal.
He had a peripheral white blood cell count of 12.7 x 10E9/ L (reference range, 3.5 - 10.5 x 10E9/L), a hemoglobin 
level of 14.7 g/dL (13.5 - 17.5 g/dL), and platelet count of 263 x 10E9/L (150 - 450 x 10E9/L). Results of serum 
chemistries were normal. His CD4 cell count was 0.39 x 10E9/L, and his HIV RNA load was less than 400 
copies/mL. Brain MRI with axial fluid-attenuated inversion recovery sequences showed asymmetric, nonenhancing, 
patchy, and confluent areas of increased T2 signal involving the cerebellum, pons, medulla, and midbrain with no 
marked mass effect. The CSF analysis revealed a clear fluid with total nucleated cell count of 2.0/mL (96% 
lymphocytes, 4% monocytes), glucose level of 59 mg/dL (blood glucose, 103 mg/dL), and protein level of 104 
mg/dL. Microbiologic cultures were negative. Qualitative CSF JCV polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays 
demonstrated the presence of JCV DNA.
The patient began to take cidofovir, 5 mg/kg per dose weekly for the first 2 doses and every 2 weeks thereafter. 
Three weeks later, he reported mild symptomatic improvement with diminished weakness and numbness of his left 
side, resolution of his diplopia, and improved speech. Brain MRI showed slight improvement in the signal 
abnormalities. He continued to take cidofovir and was maintained on zidovudine, lamivudine, and efavirenz. 18 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 228 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Weeks later, an attempt was made to decrease his cidofovir to once-monthly infusion, but this was complicated by 
a progression of the right pontomedullary lesion. He completed 6 months of adjunctive cidofovir therapy. Three 
months after completion of cidofovir treatment, he was able to perform his activities of daily living without assistive 
devices. Mild residual weakness of the left shoulder persisted.
The authors state:
'Several theories suggested to explain the occurrence of PML in the face of HAART include immune reconstitution, 
partial immune recovery, and the existence of a more virulent JCV strain. Among these, PML occurring as a 
product of immune reconstitution phenomenon has received the most interest. It is believed that the improved 
immunologic function mediated by HAART induces the evolution of latent infection into symptomatic disease.'
'... findings suggest that the pathogenesis of PML in patients receiving HAART may be distinct from its occurrence 
among patients not receiving HAART, and this may be mediated by immune reconstitution.'