This case report of a physician in Denmark was received via the Danish Health Authority (PHHY2012DK049867) at 
Merck Serono on 24 Mar 2015.
Case number PHHY2012DK049867, is a combined initial and follow-up report from a nurse, a physician and a 
secretary received on 08 Jun 2012, 09 Jun 2012 and 11 Jun 2012 respectively and follow up information received 
from the physician on 25 Jun 2012 and combined follow-up report received from nurse on 18 Jul 2012 and follow 
up report received from the physician on 27 Jul 2012 and follow-up information was received from a health care 
professional and from an external reviewer on 09 Oct 2012: This report refers to a 36-year-old non pregnant female
patient. The patient's historical medications included Tysabri (natalizumab) from 30 Aug 2007 until 08 Nov 2011 
(discontinued due to JC virus) and steroids in the recent past (within past six months) on unknown date. The patient
history did not included HIV infection, sarcoidosis, malignancy or any other relevant history. The patient was 
washed out from Tysabri correctly. The patient's concomitant medications were not reported. The MRI scan of 
cerebrum and medulla on 27 Jun 2007 showed infratentorial and supratentorial progression and new large white 
matter lesions corresponding to the pedunculus cerebella bilaterally and new changes corresponding to the medulla
oblongata. A new lesion could be seen at C4 and Th2 level in the medulla and unchanged lesions at C2 and C6/7 
level. The conclusion of the finding was multiple WM lesions compatible with disseminated sclerosis (DS) 
accompanied with progression. On 25 May 2010 MRI scan of medulla was performed which was compared with 
MRI performed in 2007 indicated mixed development, with regression of infratentorial changes and new 
supratentorial changes. Rest of cerebrum unchanged status. There were higher than 20 brain lesions, total contrast
of 4 enhanced lesions (1 in left and 1 in right centrum semioval, 1 in posterior of left side of corpus callosum, 1 at 
left side ventricle temporal horn. The MRI of medulla showed Intramedullar lesion, which were hyperintense on T2 
and at least 3 mm in size and less than 2 vertebrae heights long. There were 3 lesions in cervical medulla and 2 
lesions in thoracic medulla up to conus. The MRI scan of cerebrum performed on 26 Jul 2011 was compared with 
the one performed on 18 Mar 2010 which showed discrete size regression of the large plateormed lesion involving 
splenum of the corpus callosum could be seen. The other DS plaques were more or less unchanged in terms of 
signal, configuration and number.  An MRI scan on 13 Jan 2012 showed an unchanged number and size of the 
previously observed DS plaques. The patient received the treatment with Gilenya (fingolimod) on 09 Mar 2012, at a 
dose of 0.5 mg once daily for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. On (b) (6)  the patient was hospitalized due 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 242 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
to perforated appendix and underwent an appendectomy via laparoscopy the same day. The patient recovered 
from her appendicitis on (b) (6)  Subsequently on (b) (6)  the patient developed two accumulations one 
located in the right fossa and the other in fossa of Douglas. The accumulation in the right iliac fossa was drained by
guided ultrasound and a culture showed no bacterial growth. The accumulation in fossa of Douglas was drained 
transrectally. On (b) (6)  the patient was well and was discharged without drain to be followed in the 
outpatient clinic. On (b) (6)  the patient developed symptoms of a new multiple sclerosis attack with right 
sided hemiparesis and severe expressive aphasia. On (b) (6)  the patient was acutely admitted as the 
abscess accumulation emerged again in the smaller pelvis and a drain was re-established. The abdominal abscess
was treated with prednisolone tablets and high dose Medrol (methylprednisolone) infusion 1 g once daily in three 
days, with moderate effect. The patient was started on Rebif 44 (interferon beta-1A) on (b) (6)  The 
treatment with Gilenya was discontinued on (b) (6) . The patient was then observed for MS attacks or 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). The patient recovered from abscesses on (b) (6)  A 
contrast MR-scan (magnetic resonance) of cerebrum showed a newly arisen solitaire process in the left 
hemisphere, fronto-parietally interpreted as tumefactive plaque sclerosis. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was found 
negative for JC-virus via the PCR (polymerase chain reaction) method. An MRI scan of cerebrum with intravenous 
contrast performed on (b) (6)  in comparison with the one performed on 10 Jan 2012 showed a several 
T2FLAIR periventricular, subcortical, supratentorial high signal changes  DS plaques, which had progressed in 
number compared with previously. There were new frontoparietal changes on left side. The changes cannot be 
infarcts, as the anamnesis started yesterday. There was an uptake which was more subacute than acute. This does
not fit in graphically or clinically. It does not look like PML changes. An abscess was the last option but does not fit 
graphically, as the changes are isodense at T2 FLAIR and not with high signal. There were also small uptake 
changes which resemble DS plaque, one which had a temporal measurement of 5 mm on the right subcortical side,
a second which measured 1.5 cm and was close to the centre line and one on the right side, the third, which 
measured 1.4 mm and was close to the centre line supratentorially on the right. There were membrane and 
polypous changes corresponding to the sinus maxillaris. The diagnosis concluded from the above finding was 
supratentorial DS plaques in progression, new uptake changes in left parietal lobe and supratentorial and diffusion 
destruction C strong suspicion of tumefactive DS plaques. On (b) (6)  the patient developed severe left sided 
hemi paresis and progressing expressive aphasia, and then he was tetraparaplegic. On (b) (6)  ADEM 
(acute disseminated encephalomyelitis) and lymphoma were considered as differential diagnosis. All virus 
antibodies and virus-PCR tests were negative. On (b) (6)  a new MR-scan showed noticeable changes with 
diffuse edema sub cortically in the left hemisphere spreading to centrum semiovale down to internal capsule, basal 
ganglia, and furthermore changes in pons. PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy) was suspected and 
the CSF was re-examined for JC-virus which was found to be negative four times. The last spinal liquid test was 
performed a month later (date unspecified) than the other tests. An electroencephalogram (EEG) was not 
performed. On 21 Jun 2012, a biopsy of cerebrum (frontal, right side, white substance) was performed which 
showed pathological changes. Demyelination had occurred, extensive astrogliosis and peri vascular inflammatory 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 243 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
infiltrations. These changes were compatible with the pattern of multiple sclerosis. The same pattern could be seen 
in the event of acute demyelinating encephalomyelitis (ADEM). No triggering cause was found in the existing case. 
In progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, significant astrocytic pleomorphia was seen combined with the 
occurrence of macrophages. This particular pattern contradicted the diagnosis of PML, which was supported by the
non-occurrence of JC virus. The combination of the extensive astrocytosis and occurrence of the peri vascular 
lymphocytic infiltration do not indicate possible tumour suspicion, which was supported by the IDH1s being negative
and P53 only spread positively at one level, which corresponds to reactive changes. Similarly, the extensive 
astrocytosis and peri vascular infiltration's with small, mature lymphocytes and the profile of these with high 
occurrence of CD3 and low occurrence of CD20 positive lymphocytes did not indicate lymphoma. Examinations 
were also performed using immunohistochemical staining for the occurrence of JC virus, toxoplasmosis and herpes
virus. All stains were found to be negative. On an unspecified date, the MRI scan of cerebrum and medulla showed 
multiple supratentorial and individual infratentorial high signal changes, compatible with disseminated sclerosis 
(DS); secondary finding was polypous membrane thickness in right sinus maxillaris and haemangioma 
corresponding with corpus L1. On (b) (6)  the nurse reported that the patient had been through PCR test 
which was found negative, thus patient did not have PML. On 27 Jul 2012, the patient was in slow remission, but 
was still having severe right sided hemi paresis and moderate expressive aphasia and was not able to stand on her
feet. As per the follow-up received on 27 Jul 2012 the diagnosis was ADEM and further investigations were 
ongoing. The physician assessed appendicitis, abdominal abscess and ADEM as medically significant and 
hospitalization and all related to the treatment of Gilenya. The nurse did not think that there was any causal relation 
between the infections and Gilenya. The adverse event did not abate after stopping Gilenya. The seriousness, 
outcome and causality of other events were not reported. The MRI performed on 07 Aug 2012 was reviewed by an 
external medical reviewer. The final report concluded for an acute exacerbation of multiple sclerosis lesions 
(possibly triggered by infection )over two to three months with new enhancing lesion right precentral and only slight 
enhancing lesion left precentral-temporal parietal. Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ADEM was deemed very 
unlikely and lymphoma was considered unlikely.
Follow up information received from the physician on 25 Jun 2012: Biopsy test was added in the narrative.
Combined follow-up report received from nurse on 18 Jul 2012: Information regarding medical history including 
drugs (Tysabri details and steroids), lab diagnostic test (PCR test), outcome of events, were reported. 
Follow up report received from the physician on 27 Jul 2012: Information regarding the new events of perforated 
appendix, having an appendectomy via laparoscope, two accumulations in the abdomen and pelvis and procedures
for the same and recurrence of the pelvic accumulation, new multiple sclerosis attack, MRI findings, possibility of 
ADEM and a brain biopsy indicating this was updated. The stop date of Gilenya was modified from (b) (6)  to 
(b) (6)  as per current report.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 244 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The following non-significant information was received on 01 Oct 2012 from the physician: The physician provided 
consent from the patient, a CD-ROM and hospital file was provided. Translation would be follow as soon as 
possible.
Follow-up information was received from a health care professional and from an external reviewer on 09 Oct 2012: 
The laboratory data (biopsies and MRI detailed findings) were added and new event (polypous membrane 
thickness in right sinus maxillaris and haemangioma corresponding with corpus L1) was added. The external 
reviewers comment was updated.
FOLLOW-UP (006) was received on 04SEP2014 from the Patienterstatningen (Danish Patient Compensation 
Association), 13-1628. The Patient Compensation Association hereby returns the patients review on her treatment 
with Gilenya from 09mar2012 and onwards.
DECISION: The patient is not entitled to compensation.
THE FACTS: Relatives have, on behalf of the patient sought compensation because they believe that she had 
suffered a serious complication from the use of the drug Gilenya.
Patient Compensation Association has based their decision on the review from the patient, journal material and 
other information which led to the following course of events:
The patient had earlier been diagnosed with sclerosis and was receiving treatment with Tysabri at (b) (6)  
University Hospital. She was also followed for regular treatments and controls.
She was invited to an extra conversation on 08NOV2011, when she was found JC virus positive. She was informed
about the possibility of switching to Gilenya treatment.
Prior to the visit on 28DEC2011, the patient informed that she wanted to switch treatment to Gilenya. An MRI scan 
of the head was performed, which showed no signs of change since 2011.
Thereafter, on 09MAR2012, treatment with Gilenya was started, while conducting ECG, which was normal. On 
(b) (6)  the patient was admitted and operated for a ruptured appendix. In the following days she experienced 
more pain and on(b) (6)  two abscesses were discovered in the right flank and pelvis. A drainage was 
performed.
On (b) (6)  she developed disturbances in perceiving and expressing language (expressive aphasia). She was
referred to an emergency CT scan, which showed no signs of bleeding. On (b) (6)  they performed MRI, which
showed that she had a change in the brain (DVI positive lesion left sided parietal), which was assumed to be an 
acute sclerosis relapse. Gilenya treatment was stopped and Rebif treatment was preferred.
Thereafter she would start rehabilitation and she restarted Tysabri treatment. 
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT: For information, the Patient Compensation Association informs that the case has 
been presented to their medical consultant in internal medicine and their medical consultants in neurology.
The Patient Compensation Association assessed that the patient has not suffered any physical injury as a result of 
Gilenya treatment.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 245 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Patient Compensation Association has by the decision emphasized that the patient in November 2011 had JC virus
detected in the blood, and therefore chose to offer her to switch medications from Tysabri to Gilenya. This is in line 
with experienced specialist standard since she had an elevated risk of developing PML, by continuing Tysabri 
treatment.
It is also concluded in the assessment that the brain scan of (b) (6)  and (b) (6)  showed changes in the 
brain that were not compatible with the changes that we usually see in PML or ADEM. The patient also had an 
examination of her spinal fluid (CSF), which did not show JC virus. The brain injury that the patient has 
experienced, is therefore unlikely the result of the medical treatment, but more likely a sclerosis attack.
Patients who are started on treatment with Gilenya, instead of Tysabri have according to medical science a 
thousandth increased risk of developing a multiple sclerosis attack. The fact that the patients treatment was 
changed was due to risk of developing PML, which was in accordance with the applicable guidelines. Development 
of a multiple sclerosis attack cannot be considered as a side effect of Gilenya treatment, as the medicine is being 
given as part of the treatment of multiple sclerosis. There is therefore a lack of efficacy of a treatment with Gilenya.
Unfortunately, this is not to be regarded a physical injury after treatment with a pharmaceutical according to the law,
but the development of an already existing disorder. The patient is therefore not entitled to compensation.
Medic Comment: The available reported data does not allow for a proper causality assessment. The case has been
conservatively assessed as suspected and will be reassessed after the availability of follow up.