This serious spontaneous report from a registered nurse concerns an 85-year-old male patient from the United 
States and was received on 27-MAR-2015.
The patient's relevant medical history included chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and no known allergies.  
The patient received 420 mg of IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib, capsule, oral) daily for the treatment of CLL.  The first dose 
of ibrutinib was initiated on 03-DEC-2014.  Concomitant medications included unspecified chemotherapy.
On (b) (6) , the patient was hospitalized due to the cough and wheezing and was diagnosed with hospital-
acquired pneumonia.  During the hospitalization, the patient was admitted to the telemetry unit for rapid ventricular 
response.  Treatment for the events included albuterol, two unspecified antibiotics, and steroids.  The patient's 
Print Time: 14-JAN-2016 01:47 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 11 of 13
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
cardiologist and hematologist decided to interrupt the unspecified chemotherapy which he was receiving at the time
of the events.  The action taken with ibrutinib was unknown.  The patient received a pulmonary consults, but the 
findings were unknown.  On an unspecified date, the patient was discharged.  Subsequently, after the initial 
hospitalization, the patient was hospitalized two more times; the reasons for hospitalizations were unknown.  On (b) 
(b) (6) (6)
 the patient was hospitalized due to unspecified heart issues.  On the same day, ibrutinib was placed on 
hold in response to the event.  At the time of this report, the outcome of the hospital-acquired pneumonia with 
symptoms of cough and wheezing and of the rapid ventricular response was unknown, and the outcome of 
unspecified heart issues was not recovered.  It was noted that the primary physician was unaware of the last 
hospitalization; however he was aware of the patient's previous hospitalizations.
Additional information has been requested.