This report was received on 26NOV2014 from a consumer via the (b) (6)  
 and has not been medically confirmed.  A 58-year-old male patient initiated H P Acthar (corticotropin) gel, 
80 units twice weekly via injection, for treatment of membranous nephropathy on 02OCT2014.  It was reported that 
the patient has been in the hospital with newly diagnosed colitis.  Additionally, the patient's appetite increases after 
injections.
Additional information was received on 03DEC2014 from a consumer via the (b) (6)  
  The patient continues to be hospitalized and an infection in the patient's intestines is suspected 
(the lab results are not yet completed).  He has an elevated white blood cell count.  No additional information was 
available at the time of reporting.
Print Time: 13-JAN-2016 12:03 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 8 of 38
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Additional information was received on 20FEB2015 from the consumer's wife via the (b) (6) , and has not 
been medically confirmed. The wife reported the patient was admitted to the hospital on (b) (6)  and that he 
has remained hospitalized. The patient's infectious colitis has been diagnosed as Clostridium difficile (C.diff) colitis, 
he has continued to be treated with unspecified antibiotics, and remain very sick. She further reported that the 
patient has not been on therapy with Acthar for the past 2  weeks, not due to the events, but due to having 
difficulty in obtaining shipment, and that the prescribing physician has wanted the patient on Acthar therapy. No 
further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 23FEB2015 from the consumer's wife via the (b) (6) , and has not 
been medically confirmed. The wife reported that her husband has been without his Acthar therapy for 3 weeks, but
that he recently received his medication and was able to begin dosing again. She also reported that his blood work 
has continued to look better. At the time of this report, Acthar therapy has continued, but no outcome updates were 
provided regarding the previously reported events. No further information was provided. 
Follow-up information was received on 03APR2015 via a voice message from the consumer. The recorded 
message received was the reporter thanking everyone for their support and prayers during the time of her 
husband's passing.
Causality
1) Death
As reported:  Not reported
As determined:  Unevaluable
2) Clostridium difficile colitis
As reported:  Not reported
As determined:  Related
3)  Increased appetite
As reported:  Not reported
As determined:  Unevaluable
Company comment:
The patient is a 58-year-old male prescribed Acthar on 02OCT2014 for the treatment of membranous nephropathy.
No additional medical history or concomitant medications were provided. On (b) (6) , a report was received 
that the patient was hospitalized for infected colitis and had an elevated white blood cell count. The patient also 
Print Time: 13-JAN-2016 12:03 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 9 of 38
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
experienced increased appetite after Acthar injections. Follow-up information on 20FEB2015 and 23FEB2015 
revealed that patient was admitted on (b) (6)  where his infectious colitis was diagnosed as Clostridium difficile
colitis. He was treated with unspecified antibiotics and remain very sick. However, recent blood work has improved. 
The patient has been off of Acthar for 3 weeks due to issues with shipment but has resumed therapy recently. 
Administration of Acthar increases risk of infection. Follow-up information on 03APR2015 reported that the patient 
passed away. No additional information was provided. Complete case assessment cannot be made due to lack of 
information on the cause of death. Follow-up is continuing.