Burke MT, Trnka P, Walsh M, Poole L, McTaggart SJ, Burke JR. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy with 
gastrointestinal disease in a pediatric kidney transplant recipient. Pediatr-Transplant 2013; 17(5):E119-24. 
A 9-year-old girl receiving post-transplant immunosuppression developed a JC virus infection that led to 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) and ultimately to her death; her immunosuppressive therapy 
had included basiliximab, tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil, mycophenolic acid, methylprednisolone, prednisolone,
azathioprine and hydrocortisone [ not all drug details stated ]. The girl underwent kidney transplantation and began 
receiving basiliximab 10mg induction on days 0 and 4, tacrolimus 3.5mg twice daily (later adjusted to target levels 
of 8-10 microg/L), mycophenolate mofetil 400mg twice daily and two boluses of methylprednisolone 300mg 
followed by oral prednisolone 25 mg/day. She was also receiving valganciclovir for CMV mismatch, among others. 
Two months post-transplant, a polyomavirus test was positive for JC virus (20 million copies/mL). Her tacrolimus 
dosage was later gradually decreased; by 6-month post-transplant, she was receiving tacrolimus at a target 
concentration of approx. 5 microg/L, mycophenolate mofetil 400mg twice daily and prednisolone 8mg. She was 
hospitalised for acute renal impairment-related diarrhoea 8 months post-transplant. The girl's mycophenolate 
mofetil dosage was first decreased to 300mg twice daily and then changed to enteric-coated mycophenolic acid 
[Myfortic] 360mg twice daily. Her renal function stabilised and renal function improved with hydration. However, she 
was readmitted with low-grade fever, diarrhoea, worsening kidney function and headaches 5 days later. A CT scan 
showed only sinusitis; her CRP level was elevated, but there were no signs of CMV or EBV infection, and stool 
cultures remained sterile. Marked bowel thickening and small bowel obstruction were evident on abdominal CT. GI 
endoscopy findings included mild gastritis, erosive duodenitis and erosive colitis, as well as signs indicative of viral 
inclusions. A GI viral infection was suspected, and her tacrolimus dosage was decreased (blood level: approx. 3 
microg/L) and mycophenolate was switched to azathioprine 50 mg/day. Antiviral therapy was changed to ganciclovir
and she began receiving broad-spectrum IV antibiotics. However, her clinical status deteriorated and she was 
transferred to an ICU. Continuous renal replacement therapy was started for oliguria. Further imaging confirmed 
ileus. Her fever continued and foscarnet was added for possible CMV disease. Her subsequent predominant 
symptoms were severe headaches, development of photophobia and fluctuating consciousness. Findings from a 
head CT and MRI were consistent with PML. Lumbar puncture showed high protein CSF levels and high titre JC 
virus; 23 million JC virus copies were also identified in her serum. At that time, her immunosuppressive therapy 
comprised only IV tacrolimus 0.1 mg/day and hydrocortisone 20 mg/day. Her condition continued to deteriorate 
despite maximal therapy and support and she became comatose. Treatment and support were withdrawn and she 
died 46 days after her initial presentation.