(b) (6) This serious report was 
received from (b) (6)  study (b) (6)
on 30-MAR-2015 that concerns a 76 year old Caucasian male subject ((b) (6) ) from the United 
States.
The subject's medical history included Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia diagnosed in Jan-2013, hyperlipidemia, 
slowly progressing mild cognitive impairment and memory problems over the last 1 to 2 years. 
The subject was enrolled in the (b) (6)  study that was randomized to receive ibrutinib at 420 
mg/oral daily and rituximab at 375 mg/m^2 on day 1,8,15 and 22 of cycle 2. The first dose of ibrutinib was 
administered on 10-Feb-2015 and the first and only dose of rituximab was administered on 10-Mar-2015. The last 
dose of ibrutinib was administered on the same day as onset of event, on 10-Mar-2015. Concomitant medications 
included allopurinol, acyclovir, aspirin, simvastatin and tamsulosin. 
On 10-Feb-2015 baseline visit day 1 of study, a Blessed orientation-memory-concentration test showed mild to 
moderate changes with a score of 7. 
On 10-MAR-2015, day 1 of cycle 2, the subject presented to clinic for his Cycle 2 Day 1 visit. The subject's wife 
described that he had been having significant decline in his cognitive functioning over the previous 2 weeks. The 
subject was confused, slow to respond to questions, and occasionally became lost in his own home. At the time of 
the evaluation, the patient had changes in his mental status with poor memory and worsening confusion; the 
subject could recognize his wife but could not identify the correct date and year or the current president of the 
United States. He was also unable to state his age. The subject had no abnormality in the level of consciousness or
any seizure activity. There was no acute history of falling, headaches, changes in vision or speech, urinary or fecal 
incontinence, or focal motor deficits. Initially, it was felt that the subject had underlying dementia secondary to 
aggressive medications. The subject received the first dose of ibrutinib and rituximab for Cycle 2, but these were 
held thereafter in relation to the onset of the subject's mental status changes. 
On (b) (6) , a magnetic resonance imaging of the brain was done revealing a diagnosis of reversible 
posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS/PRES) (NCI-CTCE grade 3). The MRI showed marked 
prominence of the lateral ventricles and cerebral sulci, consistent with diffuse atrophy, and enlargement of the 3rd 
ventricle. The subject also had broad areas of asymmetric white matter abnormalities of the parietal lobes 
concerning for reactive changes to therapy, PRES syndrome, or suggestive progressive leukoencephalopathy. In 
addition, the MRI revealed restricted diffusion along the peripheral margin of the white matter change and two small
focal enhancing lesions separate from the white matter changes in the parietal lobes concerning for possible early 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 281 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
metastatic disease to the brain. There was no evidence of a mass effect, acute stroke or bleed. 
On (b) (6)  the subject was admitted for further neurologic evaluation due to a clinical lack of improvement 
despite discontinuing ibrutinib 3 days prior. Upon neurologic examination that day, the patient was conversational, 
and oriented only to person and place. His cranial nerves were grossly intact. Motor function, tone, bulk and power 
also appeared to be grossly intact. His blood pressure that day was 126/71 mmHg. A lumbar puncture was 
performed, and cytologic evaluation of the cerebrospinal fluid was negative for malignancy. A culture for JC virus 
was not done. 
On (b) (6)  the subject remained clinically unchanged despite being off ibrutinib treatment. A repeat of the 
Blessed orientation-memory-concentration test revealed a score of 24. The neurologist recommended holding 
chemotherapy and reevaluating over time. 
At the time of this report, the reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome was ongoing (not recovered/not 
resolved). (b) (6)  Investigator assessment:(b) (6)  assessed the reversible posterior 
leukoencephalopathy syndrome as probably related to ibrutinib therapy. (b) (6)  assessed the reversible posterior 
leukoencephalopathy syndrome as not related to CLL. (b) (6)  assessed the reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy 
syndrome as not related to any of the concomitant medications the subject was taking. 
There was no causality assessment provided for the reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome in relation 
to rituximab therapy.
Follow up information was received on 09-APR-2015 from the investigator: On an unspecified date in 2015, a 
repeat lumbar puncture was done revealing positive findings of JC virus (previously information was only provided
about  one lumbar puncture result).
Additional information was received from the investigator on 04-MAY-2015. 
The reported verbatim event term of reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) was amended to 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) (NCI-CTCAE Grade 5). On (b) (6)  the subject was 
discharged from the hospital. On (b) (6)  the subject was seen in the emergency department (ED) with 
complaints of feeling weak, profound confusion and trouble following commands. On the same day, the subject was
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 282 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
readmitted to the hospital. It was reported that his status declined with worsening gait and mentation. On 
evaluation, the subject demonstrated decreased initiation of speech and movement and he appeared to be lost. He 
was alert and oriented to name and place with prompting, but he had all time elements incorrectly stated and 
showed mild to moderate receptive and expressive aphasia. The National institute of heath (NIH) stroke score was 
measured to be 5. On (b) (6)  repeat MRI of the brain showed more extensive hyper intensity on T2 in the 
parietal lobes right side greater than left, and the splenium of the corpus callosum. There was more extension to 
the subcortical white matter compared to a prior study. The diagnosis of PML versus intracranial lymphoma was 
considered based on radiological findings. On (b) (6)  computed tomography (CT) guided angiogram of 
head and neck was unremarkable. Initially the decline was felt to be due to the chemotherapy. However, the 
symptoms did not resolve with the discontinuation of ibrutinib. On the same day, lumbar puncture showed strongly 
positive JC polyoma virus therefore the previously reported reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome 
(RPLS) was amended to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). On (b) (6) , an 
electroencephalogram was consistent with mild to moderate diffuse encephalopathy of non specific etiology. No 
focal or epileptiform abnormality was seen. On 03-APR-2015, the subject was withdrawn from the study protocol. 
On the same day, he was discharged from the hospital and transferred to the hospice care facility. On (b) (6)
(b) (6)  the subject died. No autopsy was performed on the deceased. The primary cause of death was not reported. 
On (b) (6)  the outcome of PML was fatal. The NCI assessment: The NCI assessed PML as probably 
related to ibrutinib, unlikely related to CLL and definitely related to positive JC virus status. 
Additional information was received from the investigator in response to queries on 30-MAY-2015. 
As previously reported, the subject had worsening of confusion for past 10-14 days which was reported on clinic 
visit dated 10-MAR-2015. On evaluation, he was unable to identify the correct year and also had difficulty recalling 
all his grandchildren's name. The subject showed some base difficulty with orientation to date and experienced 
forgetfulness. On (b) (6)  as previously reported, the MRI of the brain was suspicious for 
leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) (NCI-CTCAE Grade 3). An end date of (b) (6)  was provided for the 
event reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome. The Investigator's assessment: The investigator 
assessed the event of reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome as probably related to ibrutinib, and not 
related to CLL not otherwise specified (NOS), and not related to concomitant medication. The NCI also assessed 
the event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as not related to concomitant medication (previously not 
reported).
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 283 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information