This is a spontaneous case reported by a physician from United Kingdom (Local Tracking Number GB-2015-
This spontaneous case was reported by a Physician via Takeda United Kingdom (GB-2015-00099).
A female patient, age unspecified, received Adcetris (brentuximab vedotin) dose, therapy dates and indication not 
reported. It was reported that the patient had suspected PML (life threatening; progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy). At the time of the report the outcome of the event and action taken with Adcetris were not 
reported.
Concomitant medication was not specified. The reporter stated that the patient had received three cycles of 
Adcetris as a bridge to an autologous stem cell transplant. It was also reported that the patient was heavily pre-
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 294 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
treated.
The reporter stated that the PML was currently suspected and a number of tests were being carried out.
The reporter did not comment on the seriousness of this case. The company considers this case to be life 
threatening, therefore this case has been marked as life threatening. The reporter did not give consent to be 
contacted for follow up information but stated that a yellow card will be completed and Takeda will be informed if 
PML is confirmed. No additional information is available. Case is closed.
Follow up information received from the Physician on 01 May 2015.
The reporter confirmed that investigations did not reveal PML.
The reporter did not comment on the seriousness of this case. The company considers this case to be serious, 
therefore this case has been marked as serious. Additional information will be requested from the reporter with 
regards to the symptoms experienced by the patient that led the reporter to suspect PML.
Note 22 Jul 2015:
This case is closed. Although we have tried to investigate further, no adverse event case report by the attending 
physician is available. 
Company Assessment:
There is not enough information available to assess the relationship between Adcetris and the event
Company assessment 01 May 2015:
Without specific details of the events it is not possible to assess the potential relationship between Adcetris and the 
events.
Reporter_Assessment:
The reporter did not provide causality assessment.