AER 1562844 is a spontaneous case, received on 09/Apr/2015 from a physician and concerns a female patient 
(age not reported) who developed slowly progressive leukoencephalitis and transient ischaemic attack whilst being 
treated with rituximab (Mabthera).
No patient medical history, past drugs, concurrent illness or concomitant medication were reported.
On an unspecified date, the patient started therapy with rituximab for rheumatoid arthritis (dosing regimen not 
provided) till Jan/2014 and it was reported that, the reason for discontinuing the rituximab therapy was unknown. It 
was reported that the rituximab was given approximately 2 years for the seronegative arthritis and had previously 
been treated with methotrexate. In Jan/2014, she received her last dose of rituximab. She experienced stepwise 
the deterioration over 7 months with progressive behavioral disturbance and cognitive impairment. Admitted to 
hospital with generalized seizures on (b) (6)  Progressive cognitive and behavioral was decline. On Mar/2014, 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 307 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
she received her last dose of rituximab. On 06/Mar/2015, the White blood cells count was at 7.4 x 10e9/L. On 
16/Mar/2015, IgM resulted 0/0.58g/L, IgG resulted 6.23 g/L. On 01/Apr/2015, CD20 was 0.0 x 10e9/L. In Apr/2014, 
she developed slowly progressive leukoencephalitis which led to hospitalisation. It was reported that, these 
symptoms has progressed and that her CD19 was still at zero. It was reported that confusion started after the her 
last dose. It was reported that a biopsy to confirm PML is due to be performed with the results expected in a few 
weeks. Ultimately reporter had concluded that she did not have PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy) 
since they did not able to detect the JC virus (John Cunningham virus) anywhere in the blood, CSF (cerebrospinal 
fluid) or brain. she does have a slowly progressive leukoencephalitis of an unknown aetiology that has been 
resistant to all treatment like antivirals, plasma exchange, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), steroids, folinic acid. 
Her CD19 and 20 counts remain 0 more than 18 months after the last dose of rituximab. It is difficult to see past the
immunosuppression/immuno modulation as the cause for her symptoms either in the form of an un-identified 
opportunistic infection or a form of immune re-constitution syndrome. On May/2014, she experienced transient 
ischaemic attack (TIA) with dysphasia which was resolved without medical intervention. On an unspecified the brain
MRI (Magnetic resonance imaging) scan showed, although initially reported as normal shows high signal in the 
white matter underlying the insular cortex on the left, the left external capsule. She has subsequently had a large 
number of MRI scans which has shown progressive, diffuse white matter disease involving both frontal and 
temporal lobes and the cerebellum. On the most recent MRI scan there is clear global atrophy, worth round the 
temporal and frontal regions and the appearance of the cortical involvement in the temporal lobes. There has never
been any enhancement with gadolinium, spectroscopy was not indicative of a neoplasm process. On (b) (6)
the brain biopsy from the right frontal lobe, taking in affected white matter and overlaying cortex, shows low grade 
CD8 positive infiltrate but has been negative for the JCV PCR and shows no pathological features which would be 
suggestive of that. The feeling was that there was probably autoimmune, inflammation rather than an infective 
process but the pathologists could not be more specific. On 24/Jun/2014, CD8 was at 0.33 x 1e9/L, CD4 was at 
0.52 x 10e9/L. After several attempts to confirm the patient received the alert card, no confirmation was obtained. 
At the time of this report, the outcome of the slowly progressive leukoencephalitis and transient ischaemic attack 
was not reported.
The physician did not provide the causality of symptoms of slowly progressive leukoencephalitis and transient 
ischaemic attack with rituximab.
The company considered the transient ischaemic attack as medically significant.
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 24/Apr/2015. Following information was added to the case: Reporter details 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 308 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
updated and event symptoms of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy seriousness updated to 
hospitalisation from medically significant.
Additonal information was received on 22/May/2015. The following information was added to the case: a biopsy to 
confirm PML is due to be performed with the results expected in a few weeks.
No further information was provided.
Additonal information was received on 27/Aug/2015. The following information was added to the case: The event 
term was updated to slowly progressive leukoencephalitis from symptoms of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. AE text updated.
Additional information was received on 01/Sep/2015. Following information has been added to the case: new event 
(transient ischaemic attack (TIA)), lab tests (Brain MRI, brain biopsy, IgM, IgG, CD20, CD8, CD4 and WBC) and 
event description (It was reported that the rituximab was given approximately 2 years for the seronegative arthritis 
and had previously been treated with methotrexate. In Jan/2014, she received her last dose of rituximab. She 
experienced stepwise the deterioration over 7 months with progressive behavioral disturbance and cognitive 
impairment. Admitted to hospital with generalized seizures on (b) (6)  Progressive cognitive and behavioral was 
decline. On Mar/2014, she received her last dose of rituximab. On 06/Mar/2015, the White blood cells count was at 
7.4 x 10e9/L. On 16/Mar/2015, IgM resulted 0/0.58g/L, IgG resulted 6.23 g/L. On 01/Apr/2015, CD20 was 0.0 x 
10e9/L. On May/2014, she experienced transient ischaemic attack (TIA) with dysphasia which was resolved without
medical intervention. On an unspecified the brain MRI (Magnetic resonance imaging) scan showed, although 
initially reported as normal shows high signal in the white matter underlying the insular cortex on the left, the left 
external capsule. She has subsequently had a large number of MRI scans which has shown progressive, diffuse 
white matter disease involving both frontal and temporal lobes and the cerebellum. On the most recent MRI scan 
there is clear global atrophy, worth round the temporal and frontal regions and the appearance of the cortical 
involvement in the temporal lobes. There has never been any enhancement with gadolinium, spectroscopy was not 
indicative of a neoplasm process. On (b) (6)  the brain biopsy from the right frontal lobe, taking in affected 
white matter and overlaying cortex, shows low grade CD8 positive infiltrate but has been negative for the JCV PCR 
and shows no pathological features which would be suggestive of that. The feeling was that there was probably 
autoimmune, inflammation rather than an infective process but the pathologists could not be more specific. On 
24/Jun/2014, CD8 was at 0.33 x 1e9/L, CD4 was at 0.52 x 10e9/L) was added.
Additional information was received on 16/Nov/2015 and following information was added to the case: Follow up 
report added at the request of Safety Scientist following request to complete the questionnaire for patient alert card 
receipt and usage in rheumatoid arthritis indication. After several attempts to confirm the patient received the alert 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 309 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
card, no confirmation was obtained. Follow up activities will continue locally and the safety database will be updated
if further information was received.