AER 1563266 is a literature - spontaneous case, received on 09/Apr/2015 from a physician and concerns a 71 year
old male patient who developed atypical progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) whilst being treated 
with rituximab, mycophenolate mofetil, methylprednisolone and azathioprine.
The patient was diagnosed with antisynthetase syndrome associated with fever, weakness of the hip and shoulder 
girdle, Raynaud's phenomenon, polyarthralgia and polyarthritis in both wrists, diffuse interstitial disease with 
cytogenic organizing pneumonia and autoimmunity presenting with extractable nuclear antigen (ENA) (Anti-Ro 
antibodies 233 U/mL), antinuclear antibody (ANA) (1/640, speckled and cytoplasmic pattern) and anti-Jo-1 
antibodies 445 U/mL. He received treatment with methylprednisolone (1 mg/kg/day) and azathioprine (0.75 
mg/kg/day) and his symptoms subsided. However, six months after the diagnosis, he developed a fever and 
muscle weakness in both wrists (4/5). A laboratory analysis showed an aspartate aminotransferase (AST) level of 
730 U/L, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level of 339 U/L, creatine kinase (CK) level of 6310 U/L, myoglobin level 
of 4170 mcg/L, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level of 1190 U/L and ferritin level of 1090 ng/mL. A muscle biopsy 
revealed inflammatory myopathy compatible with polymyositis. Therefore, the dose of methylprednisolone was 
increased (1 mg/kg/day) and azathioprine (2 mg/kg/day) was added to the treatment regimen. After six months 
without a response, the therapy with rituximab was administered (375 mg/m2/week) for four weeks, with good 
symptom improvement. Nevertheless, nine months after the start of treatment with rituximab, he exhibited a new 
outbreak of myositis. The dose of methylprednisolone was again increased (1 mg/kg/day) and mycophenolate 
mofetil was added (720 mg/12 hours), in addition to a second cycle of rituximab, which also resulted in a good 
response. Ten months after the beginning of the second cycle of rituximab, he presented with right-sided 
hemiparesis with brachial predominance and hyper-reflexia as well as a right-sided extensor plantar cutaneous 
reflex. A cerebral computerized tomography (CT) scan revealed cortico-subcortical atrophy and a left cerebellar 
ischemic lesion. Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed multiple intra-axial lesions with millimetric 
peripheral ring enhancement coexisting with poorly defined areas with irregular enhancement in the left pre- 
Rolandic area, right parieto-occipital region and left cerebellar hemisphere. Serology for herpes simplex virus, 
varicella zoster virus, cytomegalovirus, HIV, toxoplasma gondii, treponema pallidum and borrelia burgdorferi was 
negative. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) displayed slight hyperproteinorrachia with a normal adenosine deaminase 
(ADA) titer. The results of flow cytometry and oligoclonal bands in the CSF were not pathologic. Cultures for 
bacteria, mycobacteria and fungi were negative, as was polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for mycobacterium 
tuberculosis, cytomegalovirus, herpes virus and JC virus in the CSF. During hospitalization, he progressed towards 
complete hemiplegia and with cognitive deterioration associated with episodes of psychomotor agitation and a 
decreased level of consciousness. He ultimately died after an episode of bronchoaspiration: a general autopsy 
revealed aspiration pneumonia as the cause of death. An examination of the brain did not show any relevant 
alterations in the cortical pattern and the surface vessels contained minimal amounts of plaque of atheroma, 
without significant stenosis. Sections of both brain hemispheres exhibited wide focal lesions in the left peri-Rolandic
region and white subcortical matter of the right parietal and occipital lobes, with a yellowish area of retraction. The 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 313 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
lesions were connected to wide areas occupied by foamy histiocytes associated with a limited amount of interstitial 
and perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates. Images showed frequent cell elements compatible with oligodendrocytes 
containing amphophilic nuclei with a ground glass pattern as well as giant astrocytes with irregular or multilobulated 
nuclei immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic proteins. The lesions primarily affected the subcortical white matter 
and spread focally to the suprajacent cortex, with severe gliosis, frequent ballooning neurons and occasional giant 
astrocytes. Images also revealed millimetric and demyelinating subcortical lesions without foamy histiocytes in the 
frontal, parietal, lateral temporal and parahippocampal cortices. Meanwhile, the left cerebellar hemisphere exhibited
cavitated lesions with an irregular edge along the surface measuring 4X2 cm and a histological pattern similar to 
that seen in the white matter, with intense cortical atrophy. The neuropathological diagnosis was progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML).
There was insufficient information regarding the outcome of the event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
The author stated that rituximab may induce the development of monoclonal-associated progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy and patients treated with immunodepressant drugs (mycophenolate mofetil, 
methylprednisolone and azathioprine), a negative PCR finding does not rule out a diagnosis of PML.
Belhassen-Garcia M, Rabano-Gutierrez A, Velasco-Tirado V, Romero-Alegria A, Perez-Garcia M and Martin-
Oterino J. 
Atypical progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in a patient with antisynthetase syndrome. 
Internal Medicine 2015; 54 (5): 519-524.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML