Case number# PHHY2015DE030343, is a combined report initially received from a physician on 11 Mar 2015 and 
12 Mar 2015, from a non-interventional study (study ID: (b) (6) ), with a follow up report received from a 
physician on 31 Mar 2015 via pharmaceutical company Biogen (manufacturer control number: 2015BI034392), with
a follow up report received from a physician and check list of suspected progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy on 15 Apr 2015 and a follow-up information received from PASSAGE study nurse via phone 
call on 29 Jul 2015. This report refers to a 39-year-old female patient (center ID: (b) (6)  patient ID: (b) (6) ) who was 
enrolled in (b) (6)
(b) (6)
MS was diagnosed in 2007 with symptoms including optic neuritis (no paresis, no sensory disorder reported). The 
patient had been treated with Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) for MS from 2007 to 2008. No relevant concurrent 
diseases were known in the patient. The patient received 48 infusions of Tysabri (natalizumab) (300 mg, IV, QM) 
for multiple sclerosis from 05 Jan 2009 to 21 Nov 2014 (without interruptions). In Sep 2013 and in Jun 2014, the 
patient had intervertebral discs incident lumbar region. The patient did not have a history regarding HIV, 
malignancy, transplantation, or other immunosuppressive conditions. The patient did not have any corticosteroids 
lately. Concomitant medication included Raxim O (cefixime). The patient was switched to Gilenya (fingolimod) 
capsule for multiple sclerosis from Jan 2015 (0.5 mg/daily, orally) for RRMS (relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis).
On (b) (6)  the patient had a seizure and was admitted to hospital. On admission, cranial MRI revealed 
lesions suggestive of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). Other symptoms included fatigue and 
cognitive slowing. On (b) (6)  the lumbar puncture was performed. Cerebro spinal fluid (CSF) analysis 
showed protein (53 mg/dI), otherwise without pathological findings. JCV DNA PCR test of CSF sample performed 
at the laboratory of the University returned positive, 375 copies/ml. Treating physicians assessed the diagnosis of 
PML as confirmed. Additional laboratory results during the hospital stay ((b) (6) ) were WBC 5600 to 6200 (units 
and normal range not reported) (white blood cell count decreased), absolute lymphocytes was 0.6 to 1.2 
(lymphocyte count decreased), monocytes 0.9 and lymphocytes subtypes results were still pending. The neurologist
provided cranial CT and cranial MRI results. On (b) (6)  native cranial CT showed an unclear hypodense 
lesion in the right frontal region differential diagnoses included either large MS lesion or PML or ischemia. On (b)(6)  
 cranial MRI was performed immediately after CT. Cranial MRI native and with contrast medium and with 
diffusion weighted images showed an unclear T2 hyper intense mass (lesion expansion) in the right frontal region 
with distinct/ pronounced edema, differential diagnostically primarily a PML had to be considered. It was also 
reported that differential diagnosis leads to a progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Less probable was a 
tumefactive MS lesion and also a brain tumor was improbable because a correlate in the previous examination in 
Dec 2014 was missing. In addition, further distinctly contrast enhancing lesions were displayed which were most 
likely compatible with florid MS lesions. On (b) (6)  treatment with Gilenya was discontinued. The patient 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 298 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
received plasmapheresis twice. The patient also had the symptoms hemiparesis, personality changes and 
headache. On (b) (6)  cranial MRI with spectroscopy showed image findings compatible with PML but also 
with an extensive florid demyelination in scope of the underlying disease of MS. The proton spectroscopy displayed 
signs of an acute demyelination as well as of florid inflammatory changes; therefore a differential diagnostic 
determination was not definitely achievable. On (b) (6)  the patient was hospitalized due to epileptic seizure. 
On (b) (6)  the patient started receiving plasmapheresis. Six cycles of plasmapheresis were planned. 
Furthermore, on an unknown date, the patient was commenced on mefloquine and mirtazapine for PML treatment 
and Keppra (Levetiracetam) for seizure prophylaxis. At the time of the report, the patient was still hospitalized. On 
(b) (6) , cranial MRI showed, compared with the previous examination, massive progression of the extensive 
signal enhancements in the right frontal region which now also involved the right insula the anterior temporal lobe 
and particularly the right basal ganglia. After contract media administration a distinctly augmented, strong, 
especially subcortical enhancement could now be seen. These findings were most likely compatible with an IRIS 
(immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome). Incipient, not decompensated circulation disturbance of the CSF 
was displayed. The basal cisterns could still be demarcated. Lymphocyte subsets analysis results were still 
pending. On (b) (6)  the neurologist reported that the patient clinical condition was very critical. The patient 
had developed IRIS and initially was treated with high dose methyl prednisolone. Nevertheless, distinct circulation 
disturbance of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was displayed in the cranial MRI, the patient correspondingly 
developed clinical deterioration. The patient was acutely transferred to the neuro surgical department and 
decompression craniotomy was performed. On 26 Mar 2015 updated upon internal review, Biogen considered this 
case to be confirmed for PML based on the positive CSF, consistent MRI, and clinical symptoms. Nurse stated that 
in the old MRI which was available at(b) (6)  study center; there were no hints for PML. Nurse and (b) (6)  
investigator could not provide any information about this PML case as PML was diagnosed and reported by another
physician. Nurse currently had not been in contact with the patient.
The outcome of the event was reported as recovered with sequelae for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
and reported as condition unchanged for convulsion. The outcome was not reported for all the other events. The 
seriousness of the events hemiparesis, personality changes and headache were not reported. The causality was 
assessed as suspected for PML, seizure due to PML, and for other events was not reported by the physician.
Follow up report received from a physician on 31 Mar 2015: Procedure (plasmapheresis), Investigations (CT scan, 
cranial CT, CSF fluid test, CSF protein, cranial MRI with spectroscopy, MRI, JCV DNA PCR test of CSF), treatment
drugs (mefloquine, mirtazapine and keppra), events (fatigue, cognitive slowing, WBC 5600 to 6200, absolute 
lymphocytes was 0.6 to 1.2, brain tumor and IRIS), its seriousness, outcome and physicians comments updated.
Follow up report received from a physician and check list of suspected progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
on 15 Apr 2015: The events hemiparesis, personality changes, and headache were added. JC-virus test positive 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 299 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
was updated in laboratory data. The causality of the event PML was changed (not suspect to suspect).
Follow-up information received from (b) (6) study nurse via phone call on 29 Jul 2015: Updated the nurse 
comment (nurse stated that in the old MRI which was available at (b) (6)  study center; there were no hints for 
PML. Nurse and (b) (6)  investigator could not provide any information about this PML case as PML was 
diagnosed and reported by another physician. Nurse currently had not been in contact with the patient).