This case, manufacturer control number 2015RR-95695, from AUSTRALIA, refers to a 9 year-old female patient 
who developed JC virus infection leading to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, and presented also GI 
viral infection, following administration of mycophenolate mofetil, basiliximab, tacrolimus, Myfortic (mycophenolic 
acid), methylprednisolone, prednisolone, azathioprine and hydrocortisone.
The case was reported in literature.
The case was considered as serious because the patient was hospitalized and died.
Patient's procedure:
Kidney transplant
The patient received the following suspect products:
Mycophenolate mofetil: 400 mg tid, route unknown, for immunosuppression. The dose was decreased.
Basiliximab: 10 mg induction on days 0 and 4, route unknown, for immunosuppression. The drug was withdrawn.
Methylprednisolone: two boluses of 300 mg, route unknown, for immunosuppression. The drug was withdrawn.
Prednisolone: 25 mg daily, route unknown, for immunosuppression. The dose was decreased.
Mycophenolate mofetil: 300 mg tid, route unknown, for immunosuppression. The drug was switched to Myfortic 
(mycophenolic acid).
Myfortic (mycophenolic acid) enteric-coated: 360 mg tid, route unknown, for immunosuppression. The drug was 
switched to azathioprine.
Tacrolimus: 3.5 mg tid, route unknown, for immunosuppression. The dose was decreased.
Tacrolimus: target concentration of approx. 5 mcg/L, route unknown, for immunosuppression. The dose was 
decreased.
Tacrolimus: blood level approx. 3 mcg/L, route unknown, for immunosuppression. The dose was decreased.
Tacrolimus: 01.mg daily, route unknown, for immunosuppression. The drug was withdrawn.
Azathioprine: 50 mg daily, route unknown, for immunosuppression. The drug was withdrawn.
Hydrocortisone: 20 mg daily, route unknown, for immunosuppression. The drug was withdrawn.
The patient received the following concomitant products:
Valganciclovir: for CMV mismatch. Dosage and route were not stated. The drug was switched to ganciclovir.
Ganciclovir: as antiviral therapy. Dosage and route were not stated. The drug was withdrawn.
Foscarnet: for possible CMV disease. Dosage and route were not stated. The drug was withdrawn.
The patient received the following treatment:
Broad-spectrum IV antibiotics.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 330 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Continuous renal replacement.
On an unspecified date, the patient developed JC virus infection, GI viral infection and progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy following administration of mycophenolate mofetil, basiliximab, tacrolimus, Myfortic 
(mycophenolic acid), methylprednisolone, prednisolone, azathioprine and hydrocortisone.
Reaction text: "A 9-year-old girl receiving post-transplant immunosuppression developed a JC virus infection that 
led to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) and ultimately to her death; her immunosuppressive 
therapy had included basiliximab, tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil, mycophenolic acid, methylprednisolone, 
prednisolone, azathioprine and hydrocortisone [not all drug details stated]. 
The girl underwent kidney transplantation and began receiving basiliximab 10mg induction on days 0 and 4, 
tacrolimus 3.5mg twice daily (later adjusted to target levels of 8-10  g/L), mycophenolate mofetil 400mg twice daily 
and two boluses of methylprednisolone 300mg followed by oral prednisolone 25 mg/day. She was also receiving 
valganciclovir for CMV mismatch, among others. Two months post-transplant, a polyomavirus test was positive for 
JC virus (20 million copies/mL). Her tacrolimus dosage was later gradually decreased; by 6-month post-transplant, 
she was receiving tacrolimus at a target concentration of approx. 5  g/L, mycophenolate mofetil 400mg twice daily 
and prednisolone 8mg. She was hospitalised for acute renal impairment-related diarrhoea 8 months post-
transplant.
The girl's mycophenolate mofetil dosage was first decreased to 300mg twice daily and then changed to enteric-
coated mycophenolic acid [Myfortic] 360mg twice daily. Her renal function stabilised and renal function improved 
with hydration. However, she was readmitted with low-grade fever, diarrhoea, worsening kidney function and 
headaches 5 days later. A CT scan showed only sinusitis; her CRP levels were increasing, but there were no signs 
of CMV or EBV infection, and stool cultures remained sterile. Marked bowel thickening and small bowel obstruction 
were evident on abdominal CT. GI endoscopy findings included mild gastritis, erosive duodenitis and erosive colitis,
as well as signs indicative of viral inclusions. A GI viral infection was suspected, and her tacrolimus dosage was 
decreased (blood level: approx. 3  g/L) and mycophenolate was switched to azathioprine 50 mg/day. Antiviral 
therapy was changed to ganciclovir and she began receiving broad-spectrum IV antibiotics. However, her clinical 
status deteriorated and she was transferred to an ICU. Continuous renal replacement therapy was started for 
oliguria. Further imaging confirmed ileus. Her fever continued and foscarnet was added for possible CMV disease. 
Her subsequent predominant symptoms were severe headaches, development of photophobia and fluctuating 
consciousness. Findings from a head CT and MRI were consistent with PML. Lumbar puncture showed high 
protein CSF levels and high titre JC virus; 23 million JC virus copies were also identified in her serum. At that time, 
her immunosuppressive therapy comprised only IV tacrolimus 0.1 mg/day and hydrocortisone 20 mg/day. Her 
condition continued to deteriorate despite maximal therapy and support and she became comatose. Treatment and
support were withdrawn and she died 46 days after her initial presentation."
Author Comment "Immunosuppressive treatment, which included induction with basiliximab and ongoing treatment 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 331 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
with MMF, is considered a risk factor for the development of PML in our patient  it is unclear whether this 
presentation was a primary infection or the reactivation of latent JCV."
The outcome of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and JC virus infection was reported as fatal at the time
of this report.
The outcome of GI viral infection was unknown at the time of this report.
Follow up report (full text article) received on 03-APR-2015 containing further information:
Reporter's details updated.
Lab data.
Patient's medical history updated:
End-stage kidney disease: due to bilateral hypodysplastic kidneys
New concomitant products were added: 
Cotrimoxazole (Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole): dose, frequency, therapy duration, indication name, route of 
administration and action taken with drug were not stated.
Ranitidine: dose, frequency, therapy duration, indication name, route of administration and action taken with drug 
were not stated.
Nystatin: dose, frequency, therapy duration, indication name, route of administration and action taken with drug 
were not stated.
New event was added: Small intestinal obstruction, the outcome was unknown.
The verbatim of "gastrointestinal viral infection disorder" was amended to polyoma virus gastrointestinal 
involvement.
Reaction text: "A nine-yr-old girl with end-stage kidney disease due to bilateral hypodysplastic kidneys  underwent 
pre-emptive living-related kidney transplantation.
Her kidney disease had been suspected antenatally, and postnatal abdominal ultrasound confirmed bilaterally small
(2.9 cm in length), echogenic kidneys. A micturating cystourethrogram did not demonstrate vesicoureteric reflux. 
She remained well during childhood aside from her progressive kidney disease, which was managed medically up 
until the time of transplantation.
Transplantation from the child's 37-yr-old aunt was performed uneventfully, with urine production noted from the 
time of anastomosis. The initial and subsequent post-operative course was uncomplicated. She was treated with 
basiliximab induction (10 mg on day 0 and day 4 [12 mg/m2 per dose]), tacrolimus (Tac) (3.5 mg twice a day [0.15 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 332 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
mg/kg/dose], later adjusted based on trough blood levels with a target between 8 and 10 lg/L), MMF (400 mg twice 
a day [400 mg/m2/dose]), and two 300 mg methylprednisolone boluses (15 mg/kg) followed by oral PNL 25 mg 
daily. Additional medications included cotrimoxazole, ranitidine, nystatin, and valganciclovir for CMV mismatch (D+, 
R). Subsequent clinical course was uncomplicated with Tac dose gradually decreased to target blood levels around
5 lg/L, unchanged dose of MMF, and 8 mg of PNL by six months after kidney transplantation. Result of polyoma 
virus screening (performed on blood) two months after kidney transplantation was negative for BKV and positive for
JCV, with 20 million copies/mL by quantitative PCR.
Eight months after transplantation, she developed an acute diarrheal illness associated with renal impairment 
(creatinine rise from 70 to 110 lM) requiring admission to hospital for intravenous rehydration. Stool culture tests 
were negative for common viral and bacterial pathogens and Clostridium difficile toxin.
The MMF dose was initially decreased from 400 to 300 mg twice a day and later changed to enteric-coated 
mycophenolic acid (Myfortic,Novartis, Sydney, Australia) 360 mg twice a day. Diarrhea improved initially following 
the medication changes, and renal function stabilized with rehydration. The child was readmitted to hospital five 
days later with low-grade fever, headaches requiring regular analgesia, recurrence of diarrhea, and worsening of 
kidney function.
CT scan of the head was normal apart from mild ethmoidal and maxillary sinusitis that was subsequently treated 
with systemic antibiotics and intranasal steroids. Further investigations revealed rising CRP; negative blood, urine, 
and stool cultures; and no evidence of CMV or EBV infection. Kidney transplant biopsy performed for worsening 
kidney function showed no signs of rejection, drug toxicity, or polyoma virus infection. Abdominal CT scan revealed 
marked bowel thickening involving the cecum and colon with small bowel obstruction considered likely secondary to
an inflamed and distended cecum.
Gastrointestinal tract upper and lower endoscopies were performed. The upper tract endoscopy showed mild 
gastritis and erosive duodenitis with abnormal nuclei suggestive of viral inclusions. The lower tract endoscopy 
revealed erosive colitis with histological findings of enlarged endothelial cells with possible viral inclusions. Of note, 
previous blood and urine PCRs for CMV infection were negative as was subsequent PCR for CMV (on fresh colonic
tissue). JC and BKV, adenovirus, human herpes virus 1, 2, and 6, and EBV PCR (all on paraffin-imbedded colonic 
tissue) were also negative. Immunohistological staining for SV40 of the paraffin-imbedded colonic tissue was 
positive, suggesting polyoma virus gastrointestinal involvement.
Due to the possibility of gastrointestinal viral infection, tacrolimus dose was decreased with blood levels of 
approximately 3 lg/L, entericcoated mycophenolate was replaced with azathioprine (50 mg daily), valganciclovir was
changed to intravenous ganciclovir, and broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotics were commenced.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 333 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Despite this, the patient's clinical status deteriorated, and she was admitted to intensive care with presumed septic 
shock/systemic inflammatory response syndrome. She developed oliguria, and continuous renal replacement 
therapy was commenced. Repeat abdominal imaging confirmed ileus, but ruled out bowel perforation or other 
surgical emergency. Fever continued, but repeat bacterial cultures and viral studies remained negative. In view of a
histological finding of viral inclusions on bowel biopsy raising the question of CMV disease, foscarnet was added to 
ganciclovir. The subsequent clinical picture was dominated by severe headaches, development of photophobia, 
and fluctuating levels of consciousness. CT scan of the head demonstrated low-density lesions involving the 
hypothalamus, sublenticular region, anterolateral thalami, midbrain, and inferior internal capsules suggestive of viral
encephalitis. Subsequent MRI scan confirmed these findings with more widespread changes consistent with PML 
(Fig. 2). Lumbar puncture was performed with normal opening pressures and cell counts, but with high protein CSF 
levels. PCRs for HHV1, 2, and 6, enterovirus, adenovirus, parvovirus, CMV, VZV, EBV, mycoplasma pneumonia, 
toxoplasma, and cryptococcal antigen were all negative, but confirmed the presence of JCV with high titer (18 000 
copies/mL). Quantitative PCR for JCV on serum sample revealed 23 million copies/mL. At that time, the patient 
was on
minimal immunosuppression consisting of intravenous tacrolimus 0.1 mg per day (serum level < 2 lg/L) and 
hydrocortisone (20 mg/day).
Brain biopsy was not performed due to the clinical status of the patient. Despite minimal immunosuppression, 
antiviral and supportive treatments, she continued to deteriorate and became comatose. After discussion with the 
family, further treatment and support were withdrawn, and the patient subsequently died 46 days after the initial 
presentation to hospital. The family declined autopsy.
Medical reviewer's assessment:
The case is rated as serious, possible with all suspect drugs and unexpected with prednisolone use as per EU 
SmPC.
Based on their temporal association the causal role of each immunosuppressant drugs, including Prednisolone, 
Methylprednisolone and Tacrolimus, cannot be ruled out in occurence/reactivation of any viral infection (e.g. JC 
virus, CMV) and also in development of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. 
The cause of the reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome is multifactorial. Posterior 
leukoencephalopathy syndrome is often associated with an abrupt increase in blood pressure and is usually seen in
patients with renal disease, eclampsia and hypertensive encephalopathy. It is also seen in the patients treated with 
cytotoxic and immunosuppressive drugs.  The mechanism of the syndrome is probably a brain-capillary leak 
syndrome related to hypertension, fluid retention, and possibly the cytotoxic effects of immunosuppressive agents 
on the vascular endothelium. There is also medical evidence of PML caused by the reactivation of the JC virus, a 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 334 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
polyomavirus that resides in latent form in 70-90% of the adult population worldwide. JC virus usually remains 
latent, typically only causing PML in immunocompromised patients.
According to the EU SPC of Prednisolone, JC virus infection, GI viral infection and progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy are not listed among the side effects.
Follow up on 03-APR-2015:
Medical reviewer's assessement:
Based on the new data available, the assessment of the case remains serious and possible for reactivation or 
primary infection with JC as gastrointestinal disorder leadind to small intestine obstruction. According  to the EU 
SPC of Prednisolone, small intestine obstruction is not listed.