A physician assistant reported that a 52 year old female patient, on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for an unknown 
indication since 19 May 2009, was hospitalized (date unknown) due to suspect PML (progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy), onset unknown. Medical history, prior immunosuppressive / immunomodulatory therapy, 
and concomitant medications were not reported. On 27 Oct 2014, the patient was JCV antibody positive with a titer 
of 2.69. MRI of the brain (test date unknown) showed new cortical and subcortical T2 signal abnormality in the right 
frontal, right parietal, and left parietal lobes consistent with PML. CSF is pending. A repeat MRI brain was 
performed (test date unknown); results are pending. Treatment for suspicion of PML includes plasmapharesis 
which is ongoing and filgrastim which has been completed. At the time of this report, the TOUCH database 
indicated that the patient received a total of 71 infusions of TYSABRI, however, the neurologist reported the patient 
has received 72 infusions. The outcome of the event, suspect PML, is unknown. Causality for the event was not 
assessed. Disposition of TYSABRI therapy is unknown.
Update 15 Apr 2015: Follow-up information including medical records (outpatient visit notes dated 29 Jan 2015 and 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 337 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
02 Apr 2015, and hospital discharge summary) was provided by the same physician assistant. Indication for 
TYSABRI was Multiple Sclerosis diagnosed in 2003.  Symptoms included a very disabling right sided tremor 
beginning in the mid 1990's. Prior surgeries to control the tremor included left sided gamma knife thalamotomy, and
stereotactic radiofrequency Vim targeting. Neither surgery was effective. Prior MS therapies included Avonex 
(interferon beta-1a), Copaxone (glatiramer acetate), and Gilenya (fingolimod). Medical history included pulmonary 
embolism, DVT, hypothyroidism, hypertension, and asthma; no known allergies. Concomitant medications 
documented in the 29 Jan 2015 visit notes included the following: Synthroid (levothyroxine) 75 mcg oral tab every 
morning; Xarelto (rivaroxaban) 20 mg QHS; Ampyra (dalfampridine) 10 mg oral tab every 12 hours; Wellbutrin 
(buproprion hcl) 300 mg; Topamax (topiramate) 25 mg oral tab, 4 tabs QD; Flomax (tamsulosin) 0.4 mg oral 
extended release capsule, 1 capsule at bedtime; Keppra (levetiracetam) 500 mg oral tab, 5 tabs in morning, 3 tabs 
in afternoon, 4 tabs at bedtime; DDAVP (desmopressin) 0.1 mg oral tab, 1 tab QD; Cobal-1000 (cyanocobalamin) 
1000 mcg/mL inj solution every month; and Vitamin D 400 units oral tab QD. Topamax was subsequently stopped 
and replaced with Neurontin (gabapentin) 300 mg oral capsule starting in Feb 2015, 600 mg TID. At the 02 Apr 
2015 visit, the patient presented with subacute  worsening left lower extremity weakness, progressive cognitive 
decline (confusion, difficulty with short term memory), and worsening tremors. The changes occurred over the 
previous month and it was noted that the patient started on gabapentin at that time. Due to the worsening 
symptoms, the patient was hospitalized directly from the clinic visit on (b) (6)  Differential diagnoses on 
admission included infection (PML or other infection), MS exacerbation, electrolyte or other metabolic 
derangements, and polypharmacy with medication intolerance/toxicity. The patient was treated empirically with 
Acyclovir 400 mg IV Q8H. History and physical noted the patient also had worsened dysarthria and weight loss of 
approximately 20 pounds over the last 3 to 4 months. Testing included a brain MRI with and without contrast on (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  which revealed the following (in comparison to previous MRI on 20 Nov 2014): new cortical and 
subcortical T2 signal abnormality in the right frontal, right parietal, and left parietal lobes consistent with progressive
multifocal  leukoencephalopathy; stable supratentorial and infratentorial lesions consistent with multiple sclerosis. A 
lumbar puncture was attempted but was unsuccessful and the patient refused further attempts. A blood culture on 
(b) (6)  showed no growth after 5 days. Based on the MRI findings which were highly suggestive of PML, 
treatment for PML was initiated including 3 plasmapheresis cycles (previously reported); mild electrolyte 
abnormalities were repleted. On (b) (6) , the patient desaturated to the 60s with increased oral secretions and 
difficulty swallowing. The patient refused a feeding tube. A chest xray was performed which indicated a nodule and 
a subsequent chest CT revealed an 8 mm nodule with small pericardial effusion. The family deferred further workup
and treatment of the nodule. The patient was discharged home on (b) (6)  in stable condition on hospice care. 
Keppra was discontinued on discharge due to difficulty swallowing. Discharge diagnoses were PML and Multiple 
Sclerosis.
Update 21 Apr 2015: The same physician practitioner reported via a Biogen Medical Science Liaison that the 
patient died on (b) (6)  The cause of death, and causality in relation to TYSABRI were not reported.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 338 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 01 May 2015:  A registered nurse reported via a program of Monitored Therapy that the patient passed 
away on (b) (6)   The registered nurse stated that the prescriber determined the cause to be PML.  The 
registered nurse stated that the patient had a loss in "cognitive skills" prior to death, which was seen as a 
characteristic of MS.  The registered nurse assessed the event in relation to TYSABRI as related.
Update 06 May 2015:  A different neurologist reported via a TOUCH Prescribing Program Form that the patient is 
not alive and had been diagnosed with PML since starting TYSABRI therapy (previously reported as fatal event of 
suspect PML).  Since 22 Nov 2014 (specific date not provided), the patient had tested positive for the presence of 
anti-JCV antibodies.
Update 06 Aug 2015:  Upon internal review, Biogen considers this case high suspect and final call for PML despite 
exhaustive follow up attempts.  This case will be closed and no additional follow-up is expected.