Initial Report Date: 09-APR-2015.
A report had been received from a literature article concerning a patient of unknown age and gender who received 
carboplatin, etoposide, brentuximab vedotin, ifosfamide/mesna. 
Relevant medical history and concomitant medications were not reported.
Author conducted a non-randomised, open-label, single-centre, phase 2 trial, enrolled patients with relapsed or 
refractory Hodgkins lymphoma who had failed one previous doxorubicin-containing chemotherapy regimen.
All patients received weekly infusions of 1.2 mg/kg brentuximab vedotin on days 1, 8, and 15 for two 28 day cycles. 
After completion of brentuximab vedotin treatment, patients received a Positron emission tomography scan. 
Patients who achieved Positron emission tomography -negative status (a Deauville score of 1 or 2) proceeded 
directly to HDT/ASCT; those with persistent abnormalities on Positron emission tomography received two cycles of 
augmented ICE (augICE; two doses of ifosfamide 5000 mg/m2 in combination with mesna 5000 mg/m2 continuous
infusion over 24 h, days 1 and 2; one dose of carboplatin area under the curve 5, day 3; three doses of etoposide 
200 mg/m2 every 12 h, day 1) before consideration for HDT/ASCT. Only patients with persistent abnormalities on 
PET after brentuximab vedotin received augICE; however, all patients in the intention-to-treat population were 
assessed for the primary outcome, which was the proportion of patients who were Positron emission tomography -
negative after brentuximab vedotin alone or brentuximab vedotin followed by augICE. In Present case patient 
received brentuximab vedotin and augICE.
5 months after HDT/ASCT patient developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and significant 
leucopenia. The patient was died due to these events.
Action taken with carboplatin, etoposide, brentuximab vedotin, ifosfamide and mesna was unknown.
Events progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and significant leucopenia were considered as serious due to 
fatal outcome.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 346 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information