This spontaneous report was received from a literature article: Moshkovich GF, Minaeva SV. Results of a 
comparative study of the efficacy of once daily darunavir/atazanavir in treatment-naive patients with HIV infection. 
Therapeutic Archive 2014; 86 (11): 29-33.
Brand name of darunavir was not reported and it was assumed to be J and J brand for reporting purposes.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of boosted darunavir and atazanavir used in antiretroviral 
therapy (ARVT) regimens for treatment naive HIV infected patients with low baseline immune parameters and a 
high viral load. The clinical, immunological and virological efficiency of treatment in the patients were assessed 
based on the time course of changes in cluster of differentiation 4+ (CD4+) lymphocyte levels and viral load at the 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 342 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
beginning and at 12, 24, 48, 72 and 96 weeks of antiviral therapy, as well as adverse reactions to the drugs were 
analyzed. Patients were treated with darunavir boosted with ritonavir in one group and atazanavir with ritonavir in 
the other group.
This report concerns a patient of unspecified age and sex from Russian Federation. The patient's weight and height
were not reported. The patient's concurrent conditions included human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, 
tracheal and bronchial candidiasis, chronic hepatitis C, infiltrative lung tuberculosis, mycobacterial tuberculosis and 
drug addiction. The patient was treated with darunavir (tablets, oral) 800 mg a day along with non-company suspect
drug ritonavir (unspecified, unknown) 100 mg a day both initiated on unspecified dates for HIV infection. 
Concomitant medications were not reported. On the date of commencement of anti-retroviral therapy, cluster of 
differentiation (CD) 4 lymphocytes were 1 per 1 mcL and viral load was 2,600,000 copies/mL. It was reported that, 
the patient died 48 weeks after commencement of therapy due to a progressive multifocal encephalopathy. On the 
date of death, CD4 lymphocytes were 238 per 1 mcL and viral load was 120 copies/mL. Action taken with darunavir
and ritonavir was not applicable. The patient died due to progressive multifocal encephalopathy on an unspecified 
date. It was not reported if an autopsy was performed.
The authors' concluded that, the use of test agents used in the ARVT had shown their efficacy and good tolerability.
This report was serious (death).
This case, from the same reporter is linked to 20150303035.