AER 1570432 is a spontaneous literature case received on 22/Apr/2015 from a physician at Zenyaku Kogyo Co. Ltd
(Japan, reference number: 1505506) and at Roche on 29/Apr/2015 and concerns a male patient of unspecified age
who developed hepatitis B virus reactivation  and died due to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), 
acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and infection whilst being treated with rituximab (Rituxan).
The patient's concomitant medications included CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone), 
MECP (mitoxantrone, etoposide, carboplatin, prednisolone), GDP (gemcitabine, dexamethasone and cisplatin). No 
medical history, past drugs or concurrent conditions were reported.
On an unspecified date, the patient visited the hospital for stomachache. Upper endoscopy findings led to diagnosis
of primary duodenum diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). At the department of Hematology, he received eight 
courses of R-CHOP therapy (dose, frequency, route not reported), four courses of R-MECP therapy (dose, 
frequency, route not reported) and four courses of R-GDP therapy (dose, frequency, route not reported), and 
achieved almost remission. Right after the therapy, he experienced paresis of the right side of the body, articulatory
difficulty and motor aphasia. In addition, convulsive seizure also occurred and he was immediately admitted to the 
cerebral internal medicine. Head MRI revealed white matter lesion in the left brain and craniotomy brain tumor 
biopsy was performed. In this site, demyelination image including SV40-positive cells was noted and he was 
diagnosed with PML. Thereafter, he was in a good control but four month later, he developed complication of 
infection and ARDS and died. Autopsy revealed white matter lesions spreading extensively in the white matter of 
the left frontal lobe, which was extended to the gray matter including Area 4 region. JC virus DNA of 3.17 x 106 
copy/mcg was detected from this site.
The outcome of hepatitis B virus reactivation was not reported.
The reporter's comment: recently, issues of PML that develops during treatment with biologics including rituximab, 
takes progressive clinical course and results in the patient's death, and such cases are called monoclonal antibody-
related PML. The authors did not provide the causality between infection, acute respiratory distress syndrome and 
hepatitis B virus reactivation and rituximab.
The company assessed causality between infection and hepatitis B virus reactivation and rituximab as possible 
since a temporal correlation cannot be ruled out at this time but the patient's immunocompromised state and other 
immunosuppressive agents (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone, mitoxantrone, etoposide, 
carboplatin, prednisolone, dexamethasone and cisplatin) makes the patient susceptible to infections.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per Genentech's 
enhanced PV plan for PML. 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 375 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Hoshida Y et al.
A case of monoclonal-associated PML in patient suffering from duodenal DLBCL treated with rituximab. 
Proceedings of The Japanese Society of Pathology, 2015;104 (1): 441.