AER 1571203, is a spontaneous case received on 14/Apr/2015, from a health care professional via a health 
authority, Irish Medicines Board-PV. (IMB, IEHPRA2015023351) and concerns a 64 year old female patient who 
experienced severe memory loss and died due to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy while being treated 
with rituximab (Mabthera).
The patient had a medical history of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and follicular lymphoma, both diagnosed in 2007. 
Additional past medical history included ischaemic heart disease and non-insulin dependent diabetes. The patient's 
concomitant medications included metformin, valaciclovir hydrochloride (Valtrex), sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim 
(Septrin Forte), pantoprazole (Pantoprazole), rosuvastatin calcium (Crestor) and bendamustine. No concurrent 
conditions or past drugs were reported.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 397 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
In Sep/2010, the patient started therapy with intravenous rituximab concentrate solution for infusion 375 mg/m2 
(frequency unspecified) for lymphoma. The patient received four doses of rituximab in 2010. She was re-treated for 
symptomatic disease with bendamustine and rituximab in 2013 (six cycles). She was then commenced on 
maintenance rituximab and received five doses at three monthly intervals up until January 2015. The patient 
presented on the (b) (6)  with severe memory loss. Her family reported a short history of one to two weeks 
duration of repeating conversation, word finding difficulties and poor self care. The patient's CT brain demonstrated 
an extensive left frontal temporal mass with vasogenic oedema, with associated sulci effacement and midline shift 
to the right. She was referred to a second hospital for a brain biopsy and a lesion. The biopsy was consistant with 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). The biopsy also confirmed the presence of JC virus. There was
no evidence of a tumour in this sample. The patient was HIV negative. She had no other risk factors for the 
development of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. She was treated with cytarabine and mirtazapine. The
lady was an inpatient in hospital up until recent weeks. Her condition deteriorated slowly over many months and she
had been recently transferred to Hospice care. The reporter confirmed that she passed away on (b) (6)  due 
to PML. It was unknown if an autopsy was performed or not.
At the time of his death, the outcome of event severe memory loss was unknown.
The reporter assessed the fatal event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy to be related with rituximab or 
her underlying lymphoma. No other causality was reported.
No further information was provided.
Follow up information was received on 07/Sep/2015. The following information has been added to the case: 
medical history, concomitant medication (bendamustine); therapy details of rituximab in 2010 and 2013; outcome of
the event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy amended from persisting to fatal, new event of severe 
memory loss added, clinical course, CT brain, other labs, date of death and autopsy.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML