Based on additional information received on 30-Sep-2015, the company causality of the case initially considered as 
associated was reassessed as not associated.
Based on additional information received on 22-Apr-2015 from the patient via (b) (6) , the case was 
upgraded to serious from non-serious as the serious events of concussion and had two serious falls/tried to run and
fell in a parking lot were added which were assessed as medically significant.
Initial information regarding this solicited case from United States was received on 11-Mar-2014 from the patient via
nurse in (b) (6)
This case involves approximately 52-year-old female patient (Patient ID: (b) (6) ) who experienced serious 
depression phase; unknown duration after and serious change in the vision in her right eye/some changes in her 
visual tracking/feels that her vision is "not right"/vision problems; few months after, tested positive for the JC virus 
and is having ups and downs emotionally unknown duration after and concussion, had two serious falls/tried to run 
and fell in a parking lot, and scraped her knees; 1.5 years after; attempted suicide 1.7 years after starting 
teriflunomide (Aubagio).
As per the follow up received on 30-Jun-2014, additional event of 'abnormal vision' was added.
The patient had a longstanding history of depression dating to 2004. Concomitant medications included Fluoxetine 
Hydrochloride (Prozac) and glatiramer acetate (Copaxone). Past drugs for MS included interferon beta-1a 
(Avonex).
On 19-Sep-2013, the patient commenced treatment with oral teriflunomide at dose of 14 mg daily (strength; 14 mg, 
form, batch/lot number and expiry date: not provided) for multiple sclerosis.
On an unknown date, after unspecified latency, the patient reported she was going through a serious depression 
phase.  This had been going on for a couple weeks now. It was reported that the patient had an eye appt on Sat. 
She had a "serious change" in the vision in her right eye. She was told it was not MS related. The last time her 
vision was checked was 11/12. 
The dose of prozac was increased. Upon follow up the patient reported that in Sep-2014, she saw her HCP and she
noticed some changes in her visual tracking.  She saw a neuro opthamologist and had an MRI but nothing was 
found (lab test).  She feels that her vision is "not right" and is going back to neurologist. On an unspecified date, the
patient was having ups and downs emotionally and tested positive for the JC virus. 
The patient had vision problems of and over for over the last year (2014). The patient was still following up with 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 393 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
doctors for her eyes. The patient had 2 pretty serious falls. 
One was around 26-Mar-2015 and was diagnosed with a mild concussion (onset date: Mar-2015). She fell again on
20-Apr-2015. On 20-Apr-2015, the patient scraped up her knees. She tried to run and fell in a parking lot. Upon 
follow up patient reported that she stopped teriflunomide at MD decision. She "kept complaining of things" that were
thought to be side effects of the teriflunomide. She was placed on fingolimod hydrochloride (Gilenya) at some point.
She attempted suicide on (b) (6)  (latency: 1.7 years). She was hospitalized for a week, then was in an out 
patient group and was hospitalized again for another week. She had since "graduated from her out patient program 
and was doing much better.
Action taken: No action taken
Corrective treatment: Not reported
Outcome: Unknown for concussion, scraped her knees, is having ups and downs emotionally, serious depression 
phase and Not Recovered for the event of serious change in the vision in her right eye/some changes in her visual 
tracking/feels that her vision is "not right"/vision problems; recovering for attempted suicide.
Reporter causality: Not reported
Company causality: Associated for abnormal vision, tested positive for the JC virus, scraped her knees, was having
ups and downs emotionally and not associated for other events
Seriousness criteria: Medically significant for had two serious falls/ried to run and fell in a parking lot and 
concussion; hospitalization for attempted suicide.
Additional information was received from the patient via nurse in (b) (6)  on 30-Jun-2014:
-Additional event of 'abnormal vision' was added.
Additional information was received from the patient via nurse in (b) (6)  on 06-Jan-2015:
-The event verbatim serious change in the vision in her right eye was updated to serious change in the vision in her 
right eye/some changes in her visual tracking/feels that her vision is "not right". The event outcome for the same 
was updated from unknown to not recovered/ not resolved.
-Added lab test: MRI.
-Narrative updated according to the information received.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 394 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Additional information received on 22-Apr-2015 from the patient via (b) (6)
The case was upgraded to serious from non-serious as the serious events of concussion and had two serious 
falls/tried to run and fell in a parking lot were added which were assessed as medically significant. The events of 
scraped her knees, tested positive for the JC virus and is having ups and downs emotionally were added. The 
glatiramer acetate (Copaxone) was updated as concomitant drug. The event verbatim of abnormal vision was 
updated. Text was amended accordingly.
Additional information was received on 30-Sep-2015 from the patient via (b) (6)
-The company causality of the case initially considered as associated was reassessed as not associated; event of 
attempted suicide was added; stop date (unknown) was added; company causality for serious depression phase 
was updated to not associated; concomitant drug was added and narrative was amended accordingly.