This spontaneous report was received from other health professional, via a regulatory authority (France Regulators 
Marketed Products - FR-AFSSAPS-GR20150224), concerns a 49 year old male patient from France.
The patient's height and weight were not reported. The patient's medical history and concurrent conditions included:
aseptic osteonecrosis of the right femoral head, hepatitis C virus (resolved), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
infection diagnosed in OCT-2014, and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. In DEC-2014 the patient's HIV 
viral load was low. The patient was treated with PREZISTA, darunavir (tablets, oral) 800 mg along with non-
company suspect drug Norvir (ritonavir) (unspecified, oral), Epivir (lamivudine) (unspecfied, unknown), Ziagen 
(abacavir) (unspecfied, unknown) and Lovenox (enoxaparin) (unspecfied, unknown) doses and frequencies 
unspecified initiated on an unspecified date for unspecified indication. Concomitant medications included bactrim, 
levetiracetam and movicol. On (b) (6)  the patient admitted to manage a progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (worsened progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy), with secondary exacerbation as a 
result of reconstituted immune responsiveness (immune reconstitution syndrome). On (b) (6)  it was 
identified that there was medication error with the prescription of ritonavir (used to boost darunavir) at a dosage of 
2000 mg a day instead of 100 mg, i.e 20 times the recommended dose since an unspecified date. Liver function 
was normal apart from alanine aminotransferase 100 IU/L. On (b) (6)  the patient returned to the correct 
dose of ritonavir. On 1(b) (6)  the patient experienced hepatic cytolysis with asymptomatic rises in 
transaminase activities (asparate aminotransferase=101, alanine aminotransferase= 666, alkaline phosphtase and 
gamma glutamyl transferase was normal). On (b) (6)  the patient's alanine amoinotransferase was 536 IU/L, 
alkaline phosphatase was 62 IU/L, aspartate aminotransferase was 68 IU/L, and gamma glutamyl transferase was 
48 IU/L. On (b) (6)  the patient's alanine amoinotransferase was 389 IU/L, alkaline phosphatase was 60 IU/L,
aspartate aminotransferase was 47 IU/L, and gamma glutamyl transferase was 184 IU/L. On (b) (6)  the 
patient's alanine amoinotransferase was 242 IU/L, alkaline phosphatase was 59 IU/L, aspartate aminotransferase 
was 34 IU/L, and gamma glutamyl transferase was 35 IU/L. On (b) (6)  the patient's alanine 
amoinotransferase was 175 IU/L, alkaline phosphatase was 64 IU/L, aspartate aminotransferase was 24 IU/L, and 
gamma glutamyl transferase was 32 IU/L. On an unspecified date, no deep tuberculosis was detected in patient's 
chest CT scan, bilirubin conjugated was normal, bilirubin total was normal, Serological tests (cytomegalovirus test, 
hepatitis B virus test, hepatitis C virus test) were negative, Epstein-barr virus test viral load was moderate, 5200 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 421 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
copies/ml, tuberculosis ellispot was negative, no antibodies. The patient was probably contaminated with 
Staphylococcus epidermidis. On(b) (6)  the patient returned to home. The dose of ritonavir was reduced, 
the dose of darunavir was not changed and action taken with lamivudine, abacavir sulfate and enoxaparin sodium 
was not reported. The patient had recovered from hepatic cytolysis on an unspecified date in 2015 and outcome of 
immune reconstitution syndrome, worsened progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and medication error. It 
was concluded that the combined role of ritonavir and darunavir in the aetiology of hepatic cytolysis. The 
imputability score for the event hepatic cytolysis with darunavir was C2S3B3.
This report was serious (hospitalization).