AER 1572514 is a spontaneous case, received on 04/May/2015 from a consumer and concerns a 79 year old male 
patient who developed staph infection and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) while being treated 
with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin and prednisone.
No medical history, past drugs, concurrent conditions and concomitant medications were reported.
In July 2014, the patient was diagnosed with non-hodgkin's lymphoma. He was treated with the chemo combination
R-CHOP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin and prednisone) (route, dose, frequency and form 
not reported). In November 2014, he developed a staph infection. His port was removed but he continued with 
chemotherapy and given antibiotics (not specified) to treat the infection. It was reported that, he was completely 
dependent on a walker though he continued to work up until December 2014. In January 2015, he finished with 
chemotherapy. Later, it was noticed that his left eye and left side of his mouth were drooping. His positron emission 
tomography (PET) scan did not show anything but he became weaker. His physician said there was no reason for 
concern. He continued to get weaker and could not get around without a wheelchair. Neurologist sent him for a 
lumbar puncture. Not enough fluid was pulled and he was admitted to the hospital. Another lumbar puncture and 2 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs) were performed. JC virus was not found. No brain biopsy was performed. His 
physician reported that, he had progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. It was stated that, he can no longer do 
anything for himself. On an unknown date, he was sent home from the hospital with hospice care. His vision was 
very poor but his pupils were active. He was able to swallow and had difficulties with some foods. 
At the time of this report, the outcome of staph infection and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was not 
reported.
The reporter did not assessed the causality of event staph infection and progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin and prednisone.
The reporter assessed the event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as medically significant.
No further information was provided.
The AER 1572514 is cross referenced with AER 1573192. (same patient)
AER 1572514 was identified as a duplicate of AER 1573192. All information from AER 1573192 was added to AER 
1572514, which remains the active case.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 401 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information