A neurologist spontaneously reported that a 39 year old male patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple 
Sclerosis from unknown date to 02 Mar 2015 experienced suspect PML (onset 26 Mar 2015) with symptom 
including language disorder. The patient has received 32 TYSABRI infusions in total. CSF specimen was sent for 
testing on 26 Mar 2015 (CSF JCV DNA testing). Also, on 26 Mar 2015, MRI of the brain was performed (results not 
provided). Concomitant medication was not reported. Treatment included plasma exchange (started 26 Mar 2015). 
The event of suspect PML is ongoing. The causality for the event of suspect PML is unknown.  TYSABRI therapy 
was discontinued.
Update 22 Apr 2015: The hospital neurologist provided following additional information. Medical history included MS
diagnosed in 2004 (first presentation was optic neuritis). The leading MS symptoms included para-spasticity and 
bladder disorder treated with Spasmex (trospiumchlorid, 15 mg, BID). EDSS pre-PML was 4.0. No further relevant 
concurrent diseases. Previous MS treatment included Rebif (further details unknown). The patient was tested 
positive for anti-JCV-antibodies in Mar 2012.The 39-year-old male patient on TYSABRI infusion (300 mg, IV, QM, 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 413 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
without interruptions) from 21 Sep 2012 to 02 Mar 2015 for MS presented with newly occurred language disorder 
and paresis of the left arm (onset unknown, presumed in Mar 2015). The clinical symptoms prompted a MRI 
performed on 26 Mar 2015 which revealed findings suspicious for PML. Compared with the previous MRI from 16 
Oct 2014, there were multiple patchy signal enhancements in the periventricular white matter bilaterally, in the right 
thalamus, in the right pontine region and in the right cerebellar lobe displayed on T2-weighted images. Two newly 
occurred lesions were seen in the right frontal white matter located subcortically. In addition a widespread extensive
signal enhancement was seen in the right highly frontal white matter which affected the cortex. The T1 weighted 
sequence showed a diffuse signal reduction in this area. A corresponding extensive hyperintensity in the diffusion 
weighted imaging was seen, however no concomitant signal reduction in the ADC-Map; therefore this was most 
obviously a T2 shine through effect. The central line was not shifted. Regular width of the internal and external CSF
ventricles, the basal cisterns could be clearly demarcated. Regular Flow Void phenomenon of the large intracranial 
sinus with hypoplastic right vertebral artery was displayed. Due to widespread extensive signal enhancement in the 
right-frontal white matter the suspicion of PML was raised. Additionally signs of progression within the scope of 
encephalomyelitis disseminata with widespread supra- and infratentorial lesion load together with 2 newly occurred 
lesions in the right-frontal white matter. No signs of floridity.
The patient was admitted to the university hospital on (b) (6)  On (b) (6)  lumbar puncture was 
performed and the CSF sample was tested at the (b) (6)  JCV DNA PCR test 
in CSF returned positive with 132 copies/ml. Otherwise CSF analysis was without findings. The patient was 
diagnosed with PML and received three cycles of plasmapheresis started on (b) (6)  Further treatment 
included maraviroc. Laboratory test results during the hospital stay: WBC 8.4 (units and normal range not reported);
lymphocyte percentage was 32.3 % (normal range not reported), CD4+ abs 937 /nl, CD8+ abs 274 /nl, CD19+ abs 
406 /ml, and CD4/CD8 ratio 3.4. On (b) (6)  the patient was discharged from the hospital. He was re-admitted
due to questionable deterioration of his condition on (b) (6)  and treated with high-dose cortisone for three 
days. However, according to the reporting hospital neurologist, there were no clinical signs of IRIS observed. The 
patient was discharged on (b) (6)  Currently, the patient continued to attend follow-up visits at the university 
hospital; the last visit was on 21 Apr 2015. The patient's clinical condition remained stable. Next MRI was 
scheduled for the next week. 
Update 23 Apr 2015: Biogen considers this case confirmed for PML based on positive CSF, consistent radiological 
findings, and clinical symptoms.
Update 23 Oct 2015: Additional information was received from the hospital neurologist via a MS Standardized PML 
Data Collection Tool which was completed via a phone call. The patient is alive, currently at home, and not on MS 
therapy. The patient had signs of active MS and re-initiation of MS therapy (NOS) was planned at the next visit.
The patient cared for himself and his current symptoms included: hemiparesis, cognitive disturbance, fatigue as 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 414 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
sequela of PML; patient is incapable of working. The patient's Karnofsky and EDSS scores were assessed end of 
Aug 2015 to be 70 (cares for self; unable to carry on normal activity or to do active work) and 6.0. The most recent 
MRI was performed in Jul 2015: MRI findings improved; regressive contrast-medium enhancing lesions, regressive 
PML lesions. The patient had no dramatic, distinct IRIS; differentiation between PML and IRIS is difficult.
Treatment includes: high dose cortisone (three cycles) in (b) (6)  (previously reported), maraviroc from unknown 
date to Jul 2015 during his stay in rehabilitation facility (previously reported). Current therapy includes: baclofen and
Fampyra (fampridine). There was no PML therapy at the time of this report. The outcome of PML as of end of Aug 
2015 is recovered with sequelae (no active PML). Causality for PML was assessed as related to TYSABRI