Case number# PHEH2015US008006, is a combined initial and follow-up report received from a physician on 23 
Apr 2015, with a follow-up report received from a physician on 30 Sep 2015 via a fax from a patient oriented 
program (Gilenya Go Program, POP ID: POP00002581). This report refers to a 35 year old female patient.
The patient's current conditions were not reported. Historical condition included multiple sclerosis. The patient's 
past medications included copaxone, rebif, aubagio and tysabri. This poly-medicated patient received Gilenya 
(fingolimod) capsule (batch/lot number: unknown) for the treatment of multiple sclerosis from 21 May 2013 at a 
dose of 0.5 mg, QD (oral). 
The following significant lab tests were recorded: On 02 May 2014 nuclear magnetic resonance imaging of cervical 
spine showed interval improvement, previously noted 43 x 25 x 39 mm in the cord at the C2 level centered in the 
dorsal cord is vague and smaller in appearance, there is only some faint enhancement within the area that was not 
identified previously, no new lesions, vague enhancement within the region and nuclear magnetic resonance 
imaging of brain showed   multiple lesions with probable amount of confluence in supratentorial sub cortical white 
matter. Severe supratentorial and posterior fossa multiple sclerosis. There is only now a single faint enhancing 
lesion in the left mid centrum semiovale. Many lesions have diminished T1 signal associated with 
encephalomalacia developing from chronic demyelinating disease. In the posterior fossa was previously noted a 
very conspicuous 7 x 6 mm lesion in the anterior inferior left cerebellar hemisphere demonstrating ring 
enhancement which is now only faintly perceived as it has a smaller size and has some faint homogenous 
enhancement. There have been new lesions develop in both cerebellar hemispheres and in the lower pons and 
pontine medullary junction which do not enhance at this time . The following significant lab tests were recorded: On 
24 Jun 2014 nuclear magnetic resonance imaging of thoracic spine showed within the conus is a non-enhancing 
area of demyelination approximately 8x6x5mm.The following significant lab tests were recorded: On 06 Jan 2015 
nuclear magnetic resonance imaging of cervical spine showed chronic mild narrowing C5-C6 disc with extremely 
shallow annular bulging of the C5-C6-C7 disc barely effacing thecal sac. The following significant lab tests were 
recorded: On 03 Mar 2015 nuclear magnetic resonance imaging of cervical spine showed vague enhancement of 
the demyelinating process and nuclear magnetic resonance imaging of brain showed  moderate cortical atrophy is 
present with prominence in ventricular system . There was a re-demonstration of confluent flair hyper intensities 
within the supratentorial and subcortical white matter tracts when compared to prior exam with multifocal 
encephalomalacia. Several pontine, pontomedullary junction, middle cerebellar peduncle and cerebellar 
hemisphere flair hyper intensities were also visualized and increased in number when compared to prior exam. The
following significant lab tests were recorded on an unknown date: nuclear magnetic resonance imaging of thoracic 
spine showed stable abnormal MRI thoracic spine with non- enhancing 7 mm focus of demyelination or other 
chronic increased signal in the distal cord as described, no enhancing lesion or interval change is identified, nuclear
magnetic resonance imaging of brain showed  redemonstration of marked supratentorial and posterior fossa 
demyelinating lesions in patient with history of multiple sclerosis with increased number of lesions within the pons, 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 427 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
ponto medullary junction, medulla, and bilateral cerebellar hemisphere lesions. Interval visualization of new small 
enhancing lesions within the right greater than left periventricular white matter as well as in the right 
cerebellopontine junction concerning for active demyelinating process .
On an unknown date the patient experienced "deep tendon reflexes were abnormal" (reflexes abnormal), 
"numbness of the right side of her face" (hypoaesthesia), "moderate bilateral L3-S1 facet arthropathy" (arthropathy),
"sensory testing (light touch) abnormal, altered in the left leg" (sensory disturbance), "gait and stance: abnormal" 
(gait disturbance), "moderate cortical atrophy was present" (optic atrophy), pain, "poor endurance related to MS/ 
strength was reduced" (asthenia), "deep tendon reflexes were abnormal; brisk in both knees" (hyperreflexia), 
"cranial nerve V abnormal" (cranial nerve disorder), "difficulty with speech" (speech disorder), "ataxic/ataxic gait" 
(ataxia), "burning and sensory loss in her legs" (burning sensation), "easy fatigue" (fatigue), "blurry vision" (vision 
blurred), "multiple lesions in the supratentorial subcortical white matter tracts" (central nervous system lesion), 
"difficulty turning to the right" (movement disorder), "weakness in the left hand and forearm/ leg weakness" 
(muscular weakness), "within the conus was a chronic non-enhancing area of demyelination" (demyelination), 
"muscle spasms on and off" (muscle spasms), "difficulty with balance/ decreased balance" (balance disorder), 
vertigo, "delay in her activity" (decreased activity), "spasticity in legs/ mild spastic right leg" (muscle spasticity), 
"burning and sensory loss in her legs" (sensory loss), "slight narrowing T12-L1-2-3 and L5-S1 discs" (intervertebral 
disc space narrowing), "multiple sclerosis, relapsing remitting" (relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis), "multiple 
sclerosis generalized/ MS flare" (multiple sclerosis), "lumbar pain/ lumbago" (back pain), leukopenia, "JC virus 
positive" (JC virus infection), "dizzy/lightheadedness on and off" (dizziness), a new tremor in the right arm (tremor), 
dysarthria/motor: strength was reduced 4/5 hip flexion on the right and 5-/5 on the left" (dysarthria), gait/abnormal 
spastic" (gait spastic). The patient denies any new incontinence or legs weakness or numbness. Nuclear magnetic 
resonance imaging of brain on 06 May 2015 result showed significant interval change has occurred, though there 
are no new lesions identified and there is significant enhancement present within previously noted lesions that 
previously did not enhance, these are located in the corona radiata and centrum semiovale regions and left side of 
the pons, demyelinating disease in the cerebellum does not demonstrate any enhancement. The patient had other 
event nervousness (refer Argus ID: PHEH2013US012187). The patient's treatment included Solu-medrol 
(methylprednisolone sodium succinate) for vision blurred. The patient was treated with prednisone 2 months ago for
speech difficulty and gabapentin 300 mg TID for pain. The patient other plan included: Valium (diazepam) for 
spasticity, baclofen, treatment with Botox (onabotulinumtoxinA) with regards to an increasing spasticity in the right 
upper extremity and it was discussed with a patient. The patient did not want to try it at this point.
Therapy status with Gilenya was not reported. The outcome of the events speech disorder, back pain, vertigo, 
movement disorder and numbness in face was reported as improved, for muscle spasticity, balance disorder 
reported as condition deteriorated and for weakness in extremity, leukopenia was reported as completely 
recovered, for hyperreflexia, ataxia was reported as unknown and not reported for all other events.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 428 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Seriousness of the events was not reported by the physician. Seriousness of the events multiple sclerosis and JC 
virus infection was upgraded to serious (medically significant) based on NVS-IME list. Causality of the events was 
not reported by the physician.
Follow-up report received from a physician on 30 Sep 2015 via a fax from a patient oriented program (Gilenya Go 
Program, POP ID: POP00002581). Events (tremor, dysarthria, dizziness, gait spastic) and concomitant 
(hydrocodone-acetaminophen, omeprazole), added, outcome updated for events (back pain, muscle spasticity, 
balance disorder: condition deteriorated, leukopenia, hyperreflexia, ataxia).