Case number# PHEH2015US009230, is an initial report received from a consumer (patient) on 11 May 2015, with a
follow up report received from a consumer on 12 Jun 2015 and a follow up report received from consumer (patient) 
on 25 Aug 2015 via patient oriented program (Gilenya Go Program, POP ID: POP00002581). This report refers to 
an adult female patient.
The patient's medical history was not reported. Concomitant medication included Vitamin D. The patient received 
Gilenya (fingolimod) capsule for the treatment of multiple sclerosis from 31 Oct 2014, at a dose of 0.5 mg, QD 
(oral).
The patient reported that she had a really low WBC (leukopenia) because of Gilenya and she was also JC positive 
(JC virus test positive). The patient reported it had been about one month that she had a low WBC and she 
discussed with her physician. The patient reported that her understanding as well as her physician's was that, 
based on the literature there were 2 cases of PML that were associated with a low WBC, being JC positive, in 
patients taking Gilenya. The patient's physician was thinking about changing the way she was taking Gilenya. The 
patient was going to have a re-check of her laboratory tests again in a couple of days. The patient also reported 
that her physician was not going to stop Gilenya, just space it out (may be every other day). The patient shared she 
was now taking Gilenya every other day (prescribed underdose) due to "severe leukopenia" and had been doing so 
for about a three of four months ago. The patient was followed up with her blood work and the patient's white blood 
cell count which was 1.8 before five months was back to normal up to 2.8, six weeks later due to reduced dose of 
Gilenya every other day. The patient had other event fatigue (refer case ID: PHEH2014US022086). Therapy status 
with Gilenya was reported as dose was reduced in response to the event and it was ongoing. The outcome of the 
event leukopenia was reported as condition improving and JC virus test positive was reported as condition 
unchanged.
The seriousness of the events was not reported. The causality of the event leukopenia was reported as suspected 
and not reported for other event.
Follow up report received from a consumer on 12 Jun 2015: Added events prescribed underdose and off label use, 
updated dosage regimen of the suspect drug, updated action taken, downgraded the event JC virus test positive 
and amended narrative accordingly.
Follow up report received from consumer (patient) on 25 Aug 2015 via patient oriented program (Gilenya Go 
Program, POP ID: POP00002581): Added concomitant medication Vitamin D. Updated the outcome of the event 
leukopenia as condition improving with lab values.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 444 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information