This solicited serious report was received late from(b) (6)   ((b) (6) ) as part of a retrospective 
review for unreported safety reports associated with Ampyra and forwarded to Acorda on 12-Mar-2015. This report 
was initially received from a patient's spouse in the United States on 17-Nov-2010 with additional information 
received on 25-Jun-2015. Follow up information was received from a consumer (Patient's spouse) on 28-Jul-2015.
Follow-up information was received from the physician's office on 14-Aug-2015. A female patient, 66 years of age 
at the time of this report, with multiple sclerosis (MS) experienced surgery (medically significant) while on Ampyra. 
Upon follow-up, it was reported that the patient was deceased due to progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(PML) (fatal). 
The patient's past medical history included MS. Concomitant medications included Adderall, Aplenzin, Bumex, 
Caltrate, Cartia, Citrucel, Klor-Con, Lipitor, Lyrica, Miralax, Mvi, Pepcid, Terazosin, and Topamax; dosing 
information, start dates, and indications were not provided. 
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on an unspecified date for MS; dosing information was not provided.   Co-suspect 
medication included Tysabri (natalizumab) for MS; therapy details were not provided.
On an unspecified date, the patient experienced surgery. Upon follow-up received on 25-Jun-2015, the patient's 
husband stated that the patient was deceased on (b) (6)  Upon follow-up received on 25-Jun-2015, the 
patient's husband stated the cause of death was progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) caused by 
therapy with Tysabri.  Prior to her death, the patient was treated with plasmapheresis four times. The patient's 
husband did not know if the patient was on Ampyra at the time of death.  No additional information was reported.
Upon follow-up received on 14-Aug-2015, the physician's office did not have any record of the patient being on 
Ampyra. No other information was provided.
The outcome of the event surgery was unknown. The outcome of the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
was fatal.
Action taken with Ampyra was unknown.  Action taken with Tysabri was unknown.
The reporter (patient's spouse) did not assess the relationship between Ampyra and the events.
Follow-up information received from the patient's spouse on 25-Jun-2015 stated that the patient was deceased. 
This information has been incorporated into the narrative.
Follow-up information received from a consumer on 28-Jul-2015 included cause of death, treatment information, 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 447 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
and co-suspect medication.  This information has been incorporated into the narrative.
Follow-up information received from the physician's office on 14-Aug-2015 stated that they did not have any record 
of the patient being on Ampyra. This information has been incorporated into the narrative.