This report was received on 25MAR2015 from a consumer via the (b) (6)  
 and has not been medically confirmed. A 44 year-old male patient was initiated on therapy with H P 
Acthar (corticotropin) injection 80 U/ml, 80 units twice weekly via injection (route not provided), for the treatment of 
Polymyositis beginning on 13OCT2014. The patient reported that while on H P Acthar therapy, his blood creatine 
phosphokinase (CPK) numbers have increased. The patient reported that his physician has not been made aware 
of this event. At the time of this report, H P Acthar therapy has continued, and the outcome for the event was not 
reported.
Follow up information was received from the consumer on 16APR2015. He stated he had a history of CPK 
elevation beginning in DEC2012. He was having more pain than usual at that time, so they checked his CPK levels 
and they were 2500 in DEC2012. He was then treated with steroids and methotrexate and the CPK decreased to 
400 and stayed this way up until DEC2014. In FEB2015, his levels went up to around 900. The patient stated this is 
Print Time: 13-JAN-2016 12:03 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 21 of 38
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
not related to Acthar use but rather his activity level, as when his levels were lower he was not active at all but has 
become more active and they increased. He said his physician does not think it is related to anything but his 
medical condition. He also noted he is a Gulf War Vet with Gulf War Syndrome and thinks a lot of this is related to 
that somehow. The Acthar use was reported as continued and he said he receives his injections via subcutaneous 
(SQ) route.
Follow-up information was received on 29APR2015 from the consumer via the (b) (6)  and has not been 
medically confirmed. The patient reported that he may stop the Acthar injections at the end of June because the 
physician does not think that the Acthar is benefitting him. The event outcome was not reported.
Blood creatine phosphokinase increased
As Reported Causality: Not Related
As Determined Causality: Unevaluable
Drug ineffective
As Reported Causality: Related
As Determined Causality: Related