A medical doctor reported that an adult female patient (in her 40s) on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple 
Sclerosis from Dec 2010 to unknown date experienced suspect PML (onset unknown). The patient had a recent 
(NOS) brain MRI (routine surveillance) which showed small left internal capsule new T2 flair lesion with peripheral 
"enht" (presumed "enhancement") faint. The neurologist noted that the routine MRI had been ordered in Jan 2015 
when the patient was seen by the neurologist for surveillance; however, the patient only recently had the MRI 
performed. Previous MRI had been done in Mar 2014 and the patient's MRIs were noted to usually be steady and 
the patient had no MRI changes for years. The patient had a history of immunosupressives (NOS), JCV [antibody] 
titer 1.06 which was less than last year's result which was 1.2. The patient has experienced a few days of right arm 
tingling about a month ago that self-subsided; the patient was currently asymptomatic. The patient's MS symptoms 
began on 01 Sep 1994 and previous MS therapy included Betaseron (interferon beta-1b) until 2006. At the time of 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 453 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
this report, the TOUCH database indicated the patient received a total of 39 infusions of TYSABRI from 10 Dec 
2010 to 20 Mar 2015. The patient was enrolled in protocol (b) (6)  The outcome for the event 
suspect PML is unknown. The causality for the event of suspect PML is unknown.  TYSABRI therapy was noted to 
be held (next infusion was scheduled for next week) until the patient has been cleared.
Update 12 May 2015: Follow-up information received from the medical doctor informed the recent MRI was 
performed on (b) (6)
Update 13 May 2015: Follow-up information received from the medical doctor informed the recent brain MRI will be 
provided.  The patient was scheduled to undergo spinal tap (CSF JCV DNA testing) tomorrow ((b) (6) ).
Update 18 May 2015: Follow-up information received from the physician included office visit notes and MRIs. The 
patient was diagnosed with MS in 1995 (previously reported as 01 Sep 1994) which was confirmed via MRI and LP,
began therapy with Betaseron, experienced "lung issues," and stopped Betaseron. The patient began using a cane 
in 2000 and in 2004, began using an electric wheelchair occasionally for distance. The patient had a history of use 
of Imuran (azathioprine), Cellcept (mycophenolate mofetil), plasmapheresis, IVIG, and started TYSABRI on 10 Dec 
2010. The patient's medical history included hypersensitivity pneumonitis (2004), asthma, diabetes mellitus, obesity
status post gastric bypass (2006), started using walker at all times (2007), ulcerative colitis, mono[nucleosis], 
hepatitis (NOS). The patient's height and weight were provided as 65in and 230lb respectively.
On 16 Apr 2012, the patient underwent MRI of the brain which showed no areas of abnormal meningeal or 
parenchymal enhancement, no punctate, ovoid, or patchy areas of altered signal seen on prior non-contrast FLAIR 
and T2-weighted images. On 09 Apr 2013, the patient underwent MRI of the thoracic and cervical spine which 
showed multiple areas of altered signal intensity; consistent with foci of demyelination of MS and unchanged since 
prior exam. On 29 Mar 2014, the patient underwent MRI of the brain which showed stable distribution and 
morphology of preexisting demyelinating lesions, no evidence of acute demyelination or progression of disease, 
and stable 2-3 hypoenhancing region within the right pituitary gland which may represent pituitary microadenoma. 
During an office visit on 28 Jan 2015 the patient was assessed to be stable with even slightly lower JC titer. The 
patient was planned to continue TYSABRI, Adderall (amphetamine and dextroamphetamine), oxybutynin, and 
Marinol (tetrahydrocannabinol). On (b) (6)  the patient underwent MRI of the brain which showed new 
demyelinating plaque demonstrated in the posterior left internal capsule measured at 1.3 x 1 cm in transverse 
diameter which showed peripheral subtle gad-enhancement representing a subacute demyelinating plaque which 
was not present previously. The remainder of the periventricular/pericallosal and subcortical involvement of the 
supratentorial brain was stable in comparison to the precious exam.  There was subtle involvement of the left 
middle cerebellar peduncle left paramedian pons. There was a 3 mm focus of hypointensity in the right laterla 
adenohypophysis which may represent a minute microadenoma (previously noted). The new focus of abnormal 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 454 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
signal intensity at the junction of the posterior aspect of the posterior limb of internal capsule at the junction of the 
external capsule and posterior putamen raised the possibility of PML in a patient with no clinical symptoms of 
RRMS. There was no restrictive diffusion to suggest an ischemic basis to the abnormality. And it was 
recommended that a follow-up study would be helpful. On (b) (6)  the patient underwent MRI of the thoracic 
and cervical spine which showed chronic demyelination plaques present, stable compared to previous study; no 
enhancement to suggest areas of active demyelination. During an office visit on 08 May 2015, the physician 
assessed the patient clinically did not look to have PML but was concerned about new lesion with peripheral 
enhancement. MRI of the brain (presume (b) (6) ) had concerns for subacute MS lesion left internal capsule 
with subtle enhancement. Another (presume consulting) physician did not think PML or stroke, but MS. The patient 
reported a month prior experiencing right arm tingling for a few days. JCV DNA PCR was negative and index 
(presume JCV antibody) was lowered compared to last year.
Update 19 May 2015: Follow-up information received from the physician included MRI images from (b) (6)
and (b) (6) .
Update 22 May 2015: The prescribing physician reported, via a TOUCH Prescribing Program, Reauthorization 
Questionnaire that the female patient, enrolled in a Biogen sponsored program of Monitored Therapy, was under 
investigation for PML, had tested positive for the presence of anti-JCV antibodies since 13 Dec 2014, and TYSABRI
therapy was on hold until Aug or Sep.
Update 26 May 2015: Follow-up information received included STRATIFY JCV antibody results.  JCV antibody 
testing on 24 Mar 2011 was detected at 0.504.  JCV antibody testing was also performed on 29 Nov 2012, no result
was provided.
Update 26 May 2015: Follow-up information received included laboratory results. CSF JCV DNA PCR was not 
detected ((b) (6)  laboratories), CSF varicella zoster virus DNA PCR was <500 copies/ml (reference range <500), 
cytomegalovirus DNA PCR was not detected, Epstein Barr virus DNA PCR was not detected, and HIV-1 RNA PCR 
was pending. CSF sample date was not provided; result report date was (b) (6)
Update 27 May 2015: Follow-up information received from the physician reported the (b) (6)  JCV PCR 
that was performed was the qualitative test, which is sensitive at 500 copies/mL and above. The physician is 
contacting the laboratory to request the ultra sensitive quantitative assay which is sensitive at 50 copies/mL and 
above. The patient is assumed to have MS breakthrough, remains asymptomatic, is planned to start Solumedrol 
(methylprednisolone; 700 mg, IV, Q4W), TYSABRI remains on hold, and the patient is planned to undergo repeat 
brain MRI by early August (if she remains asymptomatic.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 455 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 01 Jun 2015: Follow-up information received from the physician reported the result of the (b) (6)  laboratory 
quantitative test (sensitivity 50 copies) was negative.
Update 19 Oct 2015:  Upon phone follow-up the patient provided the following additional information.  The patient 
clarified that she was hospitalized in (b) (6)   The patient had a spinal tap (presumed in reference to lumbar 
puncture on (b) (6) ) and developed a headache after "a couple of days".   The patient was admitted to the 
hospital for a blood patch as the "spinal fluid was leaking".  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued due to "more 
lesions on MRI" (presumed in reference to previously reported MRI results).  The patient has not been on any [MS] 
therapy since stopping TYSABRI and was getting ready to start Copaxone (glatiramer acetate).
Update 22 Oct 2015:  In response to a request for additional information, the neurologist provided the following 
information.  An MRI (date unknown) found the lesion was no longer showing gadolinium enhancement and was 
smaller; no new lesions.  The patient was doing well clinically.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued due to 
"breakthrough" (presumed MS breakthrough) and risk of [develpoing] PML.
Update 06 Nov 2015:  The neurologist provided the following additional information.  An MRI from 04 Oct 2015 
showed an interval decrease in the size of previously noted focus of T2 hyperintensity within the posterior left 
internal capsule with interval resolution of associated subtle peripheral enhancement.  The remaining multiple foci 
of signal alteration (compatible with demyelinating plaques) within the periventricular and subcortical white matter, 
as well as within the corpus callosum, pons, left brachium pontis, and cervicomodullary junction, were unchanged.
No new demyelinating plaques were identified.  No abnormal parenchymal enhancement noted.
Update 12 Nov 2015:  Biogen considers this case to be ruled out for PML based on negative CSF, inconsistent MRI
findings, clinical improvement, reporting physician rule-out, and a final diagnosis of MS breakthrough on MRI; 
patient was asymptomatic.