This is a literature report from the Transplant Proceedings, 2014, 46(7); 2403-5 entitled Fatal progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy in a kidney transplant recipient 19 years after successful renal allograft transplantation. This 
is a report received from another company via the Danish Health and Medicines Authority. E2B Company number 
DK-Orion Corporation ORION PHARMA-SOLO2015-0034, Regulatory authority report number DK-DKMA-ADR 
A 60-year-old female patient started to receive methylprednisolone, mycophenolic acid, tacrolimus, at an 
unspecified dose, frequency and route of administration on an unspecified date for immunosuppressant drug 
therapy. Relevant medical history included diabetes mellitus (post transplant), hypertension (post transplant), renal 
failure in Jan1993 (owing to autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease with initiation of continuous ambulatory 
peritoneal dialysis until renal allograft transplantation in Sep1993), congenital cystic kidney disease and renal 
transplant in Sep1993 (First renal allograft biopsy was done in Oct2013, demonstrating acute rejection. Initial 
treatment with high-dose methylprednisolone was ineffective, necessitating treatment with the monoclonal antibody 
muromonab-CD3 before induction of remission. Owing to rapid decline of kidney function in Jul2011, a second 
renal allograft biopsy was done with pathology demostrating chronic allograft nephropathy, acute humoral rejection, 
and no histologic evidence of polymavirus nephropathy). The patient's concomitant medications were not reported. 
The patient previously took cyclosporine and azathioprine for immunosuppressive treatment.
First renal allograft biopsy was done in Oct-1993, demonstrating acute rejection. Initial treatment with high-dose 
methylprednisolone was ineffective, necessitating treatment with the monoclonal antibody muromonab-CD3 before 
induction of remission. An uneventful course followed from 1993 to 2011. Owing to a rapid decline of kidney 
function in Jul 2011, a second renal allograft biopsy was done with pathology demonstrating chronic allograft 
nephropathy, acute humoral rejection, and no histologic evidence of polyomavirus nephropathy. Using Luminex 
technology donor specific HLA-A1 and -DQ antibodies were found. Treatment included plasmapheresis, 
immunoglobulin therapy, and conversion of immunosuppressive therapy to mycophenolic acid, tacrolimus, and 
methylprednisolone. No antibody treatment of any kind was administered. Subsequently, renal function stabilized 
until the end of 2012, when renal insufficiency developed and a peritoneal catheter was placed. 
Upon admittance in Jan-2013, uremic encephalopathy was suspected and dialysis was initiated. Despite declining 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 460 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
azotemia, cerebral impairment persisted. Biochemistry demonstrated normal infectious parameters, normal 
immunoglobulin status, normal thyroid status, and no significant electrolyte or other metabolic derangement than 
uremia. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for BK virus and cytomegalovirus was negative. Symptoms progressed 
with development of focal neurologic deficits including anomia and facial nerve paralysis. Computed tomography of 
the brain demonstrated an uncharacteristic hypointensity in the left frontal lobe. Ensuing FLAIR and T2-weighted 
magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated cerebral foci of demyelination and gliosis characterized by abnormal 
increased signal in the left frontal lobe. A diagnosis of PML was confirmed by a clearly positive qualitative JCV 
(John Cunningham polyomavirus) DNA PCR in the cerebrospinal fluid. No brain biopsy was performed and urinary 
JCV PCR was negative.
The patient underwent lab tests and procedures which included biopsy kidney: acute rejection on Oct1993, blood 
test: normal infectious parameters, normal immunoglobulin status, normal thyroid status, and no significant 
electrolyte or other metabolic derangement than uremia on 2013, cell marker: Using Luminex technology donor 
specific HLA-A1 and -DQ antibodies were found on 2011, computerised tomogram head: hypointensity in left frontal
lobe on unknown date, glomerular filtration rate: 8 ml/min/1.73 me2 on unknown date, jc virus test: positive in 
cerebrospinal fluid on unknown date, jc virus test: negative urinary on unknown date, nuclear magnetic resonance 
imaging brain: unambigous progression with extensive abnormalities in both frontal lobes and parietal lobes on 
Feb2013, nuclear magnetic resonance imaging brain: cerebral foci of demyelination and gliosis characterized by 
abnormal increased signal in the left frontal lobe on 2013. In Jul2011, a second renal allograft biopsy with pathology
demonstrating chronic allograft nephropathy, acute humoral rejection. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated 
cerebral foci of demyelination and gliosis characterized by abnormal increased signal in the left frontal lobe. 
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for BK virus and cytomegalovirus was negative. 
Treatment was initiated with discontinuation of immunosuppressive therapy. The patient was transferred to another 
hospital. Because of the patient's severe renal insufficiency, no antiviral therapy was considered viable. The 
patient's cerebral status deteriorated with development of progressive global aphasia, hemiparesis, partial epilepsy,
and somnolence. Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging in Feb-2013 demonstrated unambiguous progression with 
extensive abnormalities in both frontal lobes and parietal lobes. Approximately 3 months after the onset of 
symptoms, death ensued.
The patient died on unknown date. It was unknown if an autopsy was performed. This case was assessed as 
serious with seriousness criteria death, hospitalization and other medically important condition. It was reported 
implied positive causality (by both reporter and company) between the events progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy and jc virus infection and the suspect drugs.
Author Comment "In our patient, PML developed 19 years after renal allograft transplantation, possibly owing to 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 461 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
recent conversion of immunosuppressive treatment".
Pfizer is a Marketing Authorization Holder of methylprednisolone in the reporter's country. This may be a duplicate 
report if another Marketing Authorization Holder of methylprednisolone has submitted the same report to the 
regulatory authorities.
Follow-up (25May2015): This follow-up report is being submitted to amend previously reported information: 
captured intermediary media: regulatory authority and report media: literature article in the reporter information of 
the safety database.