Case number PHHY2015DK063430, is an initial spontaneous report from a physician via (DK-DKMA-ADR 
22995966) received on 18-May-2015 via E2b.This report refers to a 60-year-old female patient. Medical history of 
the patient included kidney failure due to autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease and was on peritoneal 
dialysis until renal allograft transplantation in(b) (6) . Current conditions included diabetes mellitus and 
hypertension. Historical drug included cyclosporine and azathioprine. Due to decline in kidney function 
plasmapheresis and immunoglobulin therapy was given. The patient received mycophenolic acid, tacrolimus and 
methylprednisolone (manufacturer, formulation, dose, route and frequency unknown for all the three medications) 
since an unreported date. On an unknown date by the end of 2012, renal insufficiency developed and a peritoneal 
catheter was placed. The patient was hospitalized on an unknown date in (b) (6)  and was suspected to have 
uremic encephalopathy. With the declining azotemia and cerebral impairment persisted symptoms progressed with 
development of focal neurologic deficits including anomia and facial nerve paralysis, mild cognitive impairment and 
altered diurnal rhythm. Estimated glomerular filtration rate was 8 mL/min/1.73 m2 (CKD-EPI). Computed 
tomography of the brain demonstrated an uncharacteristic hypo intensity in the left frontal lobe. FLAIR and T2-
weighted magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated cerebral foci of demyelination and gliosis characterized by 
abnormal increased signal in the left frontal lobe. The patient was diagnosed with progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy after confirmed by a clearly positive qualitative JC polyomavirus DNA PCR in the 
cerebrospinal fluid. Treatment was initiated with discontinuation of immunosuppressive therapy. The patient was 
transferred to another hospital. Due to severe renal insufficiency, no antiviral no antiviral therapy was considered 
viable. The patient's cerebral status deteriorated with development of progressive global aphasia, hemiparesis, 
partial epilepsy, and somnolence. Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging in Feb 2013 demonstrated unambiguous 
progression with extensive abnormalities in both frontal lobes and parietal lobes. On an unknown date, 
approximately (b)(6) months after the onset of symptoms the patient died. Seriousness assessment of events was 
upgraded based on information available in the source document. The concluded that occurrence of multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy is related to immunosuppressive status and possibly distinctive immunosuppressive therapy.