AER 1573792, is a interventional clinical study case, received on 22/Jun/2011 from a physician and concerns a 75 
year old female patient (patient number: (b) (6) ) who developed fatal cerebral candidiasis, progressive multifocal 
leucoencephalopathy and secondary myelodysplastic syndrome while enrolled in (b) (6)
(b) (6)
No medical history, concurrent conditions, concomitant medications or past drugs were reported.
On an unknown date, the patient started therapy with rituximab (dosing regimen was not reported), fludarabine 
(dosing regimen was not reported) and cyclophosphamide (dosing regimen was not reported). On 05/Aug/2009, 
she received day 1, cycle 6 of rituximab, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide. On 21/Feb/2011, she developed fatal 
cerebral candidiasis, progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy and secondary myelodysplastic syndrome. It was 
reported that she was treated with broad spectrum antifungal therapy (unspecified). On (b) (6)  she died due 
to progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy with intra cerebral candida guillermondii infection. Autopsy details 
were not reported.
At the time of death, it was unknown whether therapy with rituximab, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide was 
ongoing or not.
The physician assessed fatal cerebral candidiasis, progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy and secondary 
myelodysplastic syndrome as probably related to rituximab, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide.
No further information was provided.
This AER is cross link with AER1573222 (same patient).
Analysis of similar events (PT-Candida infection)
On29/May/2015, the Roche safety database was searched for fatal serious clinical and non-interventional 
study/program (NIS/P) cases with MedDRA HLT Candida infections for rituximab.
No previously reported IND safety reports were identified.
In addition, 16 non-IND serious reports with similar events [Candida infection, Candida pneumonia, Candida sepsis,
esophageal candidiasis, Oropharyngeal candidiasis, Respiratory moniliasis, Systemic candida] 11 reported from 
clinical studies and 5 from non- interventional study/programs were identified, which included 7 females, 6 males, 2 
gender not specified and 1 unknown gender, the age ranged from 21 years to 83 years old. Time-to-onset from 
initiation of therapy ranged from 10 days to 259 days. The reporter assessed the causality in relationship to the 
investigational drug as related in 9, unrelated in 5, not reported in 1 and unknown in 1 case. Alternative 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 481 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
causalities/confounding factors included confounding factors of Diabetes mellitus, autoimmune hemolytic anemia, 
Stem cell transplant, Candidemia, Aplasia pure red cell, and concomitant medications of cyclosporine and 
Methotrexate.
In the index case AER 1573792, the 75 year old female patient experienced the event of cerebral candidiasis for an
unknown duration after initiation and most recent dose of rituximab. Though a possible role of rituximab cannot be 
excluded, other contributing/risk and etiological factors included the underlying disease of mantle cell lymphoma, 
and concurrent conditions of myelodysplastic syndrome and concomitant medications of fludarabine and 
cyclophosphamide.
Based on a review of available data, the Sponsor cannot establish or exclude the possibility of a cause-and-effect 
relationship between administration of rituximab and the occurrence of cerebral candidiasis.
After review of the clinical details of the index case and similar previous cases, the sponsor does not believe that 
changes to the conduct of the clinical trial are warranted in response to this case report at this time.
Analysis of similar events (PT- Myelodysplastic syndrome)
On29/May/2015, the Roche safety database was searched for serious clinical and non-interventional study/program
(NIS/P) cases with MedDRA HLT Myelodysplastic syndromes for rituximab.
No previously reported IND safety reports were identified.
In addition, 185 non-IND serious reports with similar events [Chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia, Myelodysplastic 
syndrome, Refractory anaemia with an excess of blasts, Refractory cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia, 
Refractory cytopenia with unilineage dysplasia] 133 reported from clinical studies and 51 from non- interventional 
study/programs were identified, which included 55 females, 68 males, 28 gender not specified and 28 unknown 
gender, the age ranged from 42 years to 84 years old. Time-to-onset from initiation of therapy ranged from 0 days
to 4 years. The outcome was fatal in 58 cases. The reporter assessed the causality in relationship to the 
investigational drug as related in 96, unrelated in 60, not reported in 23, unknown in 4 and not applicable in 1 cases.
Alternative causalities/confounding factors included underlying diseases of B cell Lymphoma, Burkitts lymphoma, 
Diffuse large B cell lymphoma, Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma, prolymphocytic leukaemia.
In the index case AER 1573792, the 75 year old female patient experienced the event of myelodysplastic syndrome
unknown duration after initiation and most recent dose of rituximab. Though a possible role of rituximab cannot be 
excluded, other contributing/risk and etiological factors included the underlying disease of mantle cell lymphoma, 
and concurrent conditions of myelodysplastic syndrome and concomitant medications of fludarabine and 
cyclophosphamide.
Based on review of available data, the Sponsor cannot establish or exclude the possibility of a cause-and-effect 
relationship between administration of rituximab and the occurrence of myelodysplastic syndrome.
After review of the clinical details of the index case and similar previous cases, the sponsor does not believe that 
changes to the conduct of the clinical trial are warranted in response to this case report at this time.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 482 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information