Upon internal review on 01-Jun-2015, the case was upgraded to serious as the previously reported event of 
increased susceptibility to infection was reassessed as serious (important medical event).
Initial information regarding this clinically sponsored solicited case from United States was received on 20-Jun-2014
from the patient via a nurse in (b) (6) .
This case involves a 58-year-old adult male patient (Patient ID: (b) (6) ) who was JC positive, experienced 
changes in vision/ deterioration in his vision, increased susceptibility to infection, brain isn't kicking out names of 
things like it used to (memory problems), had tight, band like sensation around his head when he went to bed the 
other day (head discomfort), forgot 1 dose of his medication (drug dose omission), his left hand was feeling 
heavier, numb and stiff and increased weakness in his stepwith dragging left foot a little more-so when out in the 
cold, heat this summer seemed to effect more than it usually does, gets tired very quickly in heat, foot cramps all 
after unknown duration after; and bladder urgency few months after starting teriflunomide (Aubagio). The patient 
reports he took Aubagio "every other day" (inappropriate schedule of drug administration) (latency: unknown).
Medical history: Ruptured diverticulum after Solumedrol treatment hip replacement surgery, immediate infection 
following hip replacement surgery, kidney stones 8 years ago and heart surgery. The patient reports he had a heart 
valve "replaced with a metallic valve" years ago. Past medication: methylprednisolone sodium succinate 
(Solumedrol), Natalizumab (Tysabri) and Interferon Beta-1A.  Patient had history of hip replacement. Concomitant 
medication: Supplements to keep A1C levels stable and Fampridine (Ampyra).
On 23-May-2014, the patient commenced treatment with oral teriflunomide at a dose of 14 mg daily (strength: 14 
mg, form, batch/lot number and expiry date: not provided) for multiple sclerosis.
On unknown dates, after unspecified latency, the patient was JC positive, forgot 1 dose of his medication (drug 
dose omission) since starting therapy with teriflunomide and had noticed a change in his vision/ deterioration in his 
vision.  It was reported that patient did not felt he had cataract and had appointment with specialist on 03-Aug-
2014.It was harder for him to concentrate and letters jump. It was worse when he was fatigued. Patient reported he 
had increased susceptibility to infection but this was not new since starting on teriflunomide.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 507 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Patient reported that he missed 6 days of his Ampyra recently due to SPP issues. Patient mentioned that he felt 
that the combination of Ampyra and Aubagio made him feel better all over. Patient felt that the things were clearer. 
Handwriting of the patient had improved as patient felt it was easier to hold a pen now. Patient felt that Tysabri too 
helped with this but the effect would wind down before next treatment.
On an unknown date, the patient experienced increased sense of urinary urgency, which recovered on an unknown
date. Patient reported that he lost 27 lbs over the past year and a half and had been focusing on eating healthier 
and lowering his A1C. Patient mentioned he had several surgeries, "Heart surgery, and took a foot off his intestines
out, left hip replacement". Patient also mentions he had numbness and tingling in his left hand and arm as well as 
left arm but this is not a new symptom since starting teriflunomide.  Patient reported that he had a tight, band like 
sensation around his head when he went to bed the other day.  Felt like the heat and recent increase in 
activity/stress had contributed. Patient also reports that over the past 2 weeks he felt like his "brain isn't kicking out 
names of things like it used to" and had experienced same thing years ago also. Patient stated that before starting 
on natalizumab, he could hardly walk, talk or hold a pen in his hand. Upon follow up the patient reported that he 
usually did not do well with hot weather but tolerated the cold weather.  He had noticed however, this winter the cold
had been bothering him. On an unknown date, after unknown latency after starting teriflunomide patient 
experienced increased weakness in his step and was dragging left foot a little more-so when out in the cold. On an 
unknown date, after unknown latency after starting teriflunomide his left hand was feeling heavier, numb and stiff.
Patient reported that back in March he went on vacation and did not pack enough teriflunomide for time on 
vacation. The patient stated he took teriflunomide every other day until he returned home (inappropriate schedule of
drug administration). He complains that he uses pill containers because packaging makes removing teriflunomide 
difficult. Patient also reports if he takes his teriflunomide on an empty stomach he may have "diarrhea".
Upon follow up, patient reported that the heat this summer seemed to affect him more than it usually does (onset 
and latency: unknown). Per patient, gets tired very quickly in the heat (onset and latency: unknown) and has foot 
cramps (onset and latency: unknown). The patient had some bladder urgency (onset: 2015 and latency: few 
months) for 2-3 weeks this summer. He mentioned that he wondered if it may be related to his blood sugar as his 
diet had changed while on vacation. The patient had experienced similar problems (medical history) when his A1C 
was "out of whack" 2 years before reporting. The patient had recently been focusing on getting his diet back on 
track and felt the urgency had improved.
No action was taken and therapy with teriflunomide was maintained.
Corrective treatment: Not reported
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 508 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Outcome: recovering/resolving for increased urinary urgency; not applicable for drug dose omission, inappropriate 
schedule of drug administration; recovered/resolved for bladder urgency; unknown for all the other events.
Reporter causality: Not reported
Company causality: Associated (not associated for drug dose omission, inappropriate schedule of drug 
administration, heat intolerance, tired, foot cramps, bladder urgency).
Seriousness criteria: The event of infection susceptibility increased was assessed as an important medical event.
Additional information regarding this case was received on 25-Jul-2014:
-Event "increased susceptibility to infection" was added.
-Verbatim for event "changes in vision/"deterioration" in his vision" was updated (earlier reported as changes in 
vision).
-Medical history, past medication and concomitant medication added.
-Text amended.
Additional information was received on 05-Sep-2014:
-Medical history updated
-Past medications updated
-Additional event added
Additional information was received on 05-Nov-2014 from patient via a nurse in (b) (6)
Additional events of brain isn't kicking out names of things like it used to (memory problems), had tight, band like 
sensation around his head when he went to bed the other day (head discomfort) and concomitant medication 
Fampridine (Ampyra) added, medical history updated, and text amended accordingly. 
Additional information was received on 09-Feb-2015 from the patient via (b) (6)
Hip replacement added as medical history. Added events: his left hand was feeling heavier, numb and stiff and 
increased weakness in his step with dragging left foot a little more-so when out in the cold. Text amended as per 
the information received.
Follow-up information was received on 01-Jun-2015.
Event on inappropriate schedule of drug administration added with causality updated for drug dose omission, event 
upgraded to serious of infection susceptibility. Text was updated accordingly.
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 509 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Additional information was received on 31-Aug-2015 from the patient via nurse in (b) (6)
Added events: heat this summer seemed to effect more than it usually does, gets tired very quickly in heat, foot 
cramps (onset and latency: unknown) and bladder urgency (onset: 2015 and latency: few months); added lab test; 
added medical history: bladder urgency; and amended text accordingly.