This is a literature case from the United States of America. A 77-year-old male patient developed pneumonia and 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PMLE) while receiving tacrolimus for GVHD prophylaxis. 
The patient's medical history included transplantation, acute myelomonocytic leukemia with diploid cytogenetics, 
GVHD prophylaxis. Co-suspect medications included idarubicin, cytarabine, vosaroxin, decitabine, fludarabine, 
melphalan, antithymocyte globulin and methotrexate.
The patient was diagnosed with acute myelomonocytic leukaemia with diploid cytogenetics. He received standard 
induction therapy with idarubicin and cytarabine, experienced a complete remission, and then received 2 additional 
cycles as consolidation therapy. The patient then experienced disease relapse and achieved a second remission 
after treatment with high-dose cytarabine and vosaroxin followed by decitabine. He then proceeded with an 
allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) from a 10/10 HLA matched unrelated donor. Both the patient and 
the donor were cytomegalovirus-negative. His conditioning regimen consisted of fludarabine, 25 mg/m2 for 5 days; 
melphalan, 70 mg/m2 for 2 days; and antithymocyte globulin (ATG) for 3 days. After BMT, the patient received 
Print Time: 07-JUN-2016 03:01 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 513 of 549
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
methotrexate, 5 mg/m2 on post-transplant days 1, 3, 6, and 11 and tacrolimus for GVHD prophylaxis. On post-
transplant day 30, results of a bone marrow biopsy showed full donor chimerism and no evidence of leukemia. His 
post-transplant period was complicated by deconditioning and pneumonia that resolved with antibiotics, although he
did not develop any evidence of GVHD. 
On post-transplant day 153, the patient developed symptoms of lethargy and right lower extremity weakness. Brain 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a 5.4 x 2.3-cm enhancing lesion in the left centrum semiovale white 
matter. Results of CSF cellular, biochemical, and routine microbiology tests were within normal range. However, 
qualitative CSF PCR was positive for JCV, and serum viral load was 6376 copies/mL, consistent with a diagnosis of
PML. The absolute CD4+ T-cell count was decreased at 99 cells/microliter, and the CD8+ Tcell count was 195 
cells/microliter. Because of the lack of a proven effective treatment for PML, the patient was discharged to a skilled 
nursing facility without further therapy and died on post-transplant day 202.
Literature Reference: 
Lee HC, Mulanovich V, Nieto Y. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy after allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation for acute myeloid leukemia. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2014 Dec;12(12):1660-4.
This case (USA/USA/15/00455) was linked with the case (USA/USA/15/0045566) as the reporter was same.