Initial information regarding this unsolicited serious case from Germany was received on 09-Jun-2015, from a 
Neurologist.
This case concerns a 60 year-old female patient, whose JC virus test was positive, and had a MS relapse unknown 
latency after starting teriflunomide.
No past medications were reported. Medical history included MS and possibly positive JC antibody before 
teriflunomide therapy (no JC antibody test is done before start of teriflunomide therapy). Concomitant medication 
include: Glatiramer acetate. In 2014, the patient was diagnosed with "late onset multiple sclerosis.It was reported 
that before starting teriflunomide, the patient had not received any other medication for teriflunomide apart from 
relapse therapy with intarvenous steroids.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 9 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
In 2014, the patient started treatment with oral film coated tablet of teriflunomide (strength: 14 mg, frequency, 
lot/batch number and expiry date: not provided) for Relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.
In May 2015, i.e. unknown latency after starting teriflunomide, the patient's JC virus test was positive. The patient 
switched neurologist in May-2015. In May-2015, patient might be switched to Natalizumab but JC-antibody 
diagnostic was positive (no further symptoms). On 18-May-2015, teriflunomide therapy was discontinued due to MS
relapse (onset and latency unknown) and lack of drug effect of teriflunomide was suspected. The patient was now 
treated with glatiramere acetate (Copaxone).
Action taken: No action taken
Corrective: Not reported
Outcome: Not recovered (JC virus test positive); Unknown (MS relapse)
Seriousness criteria: medically significant (JC virus test was positive); Important medical event (MS relapse)
The neurologist stated that a causal relationship between teriflunomide and JCV in the patient can never be 
excluded and never be proven, either (there are no positive or negative findings/signs in the past).
Additional infromation received on 10-Jun-2015 from the neurologist:
Therapy start date for teriflunomide added, reporter causality description added, past MS treatment was reported.