Invalid Case: Event not reported.
The initial receipt date was 11 June 2015. 
Follow up information was received by the patient on 11 June 2015 and additional follow up information was 
received by the patient on 11 June 2015 (information processed together): Adverse event term was provided. This 
previously invalid case has become valid upon receipt of this additional information. As this case is also serious 
(hospitalization), a full narrative has been generated below.
This case, manufacturer control number 2015-0158383 is a report from a solicited Patient Support Program, (b) (6)  
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 12 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
((b) (6) ) referring to a 52 Year old Female patient. The Consumer reported the 
following event PML (PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHAOLOPATHY) for this case. 
Medical history was not provided. 
On 08 January 2013, the patient received AMBRISENTAN 5 mg, QD (daily) for Drug use for unknown indication.
Concomitant medications were not reported by the Consumer.
The patient was hospitalized for PML (Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy). Further details, including 
hospitalization dates and an event onset date, were not reported. It was not clarified if the patient remained 
hospitalized at the time of this report.
Relevant laboratory/diagnostic tests were not reported.
Ambrisentan was continued.
PML (PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHAOLOPATHY) was Serious with an outcome of Not 
Reported.
Follow up information was received by the patient's physician on 20 August 2015: The physician medically 
confirmed the event of PML (PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHAOLOPATHY) and reported it was 
not related to ambrisentan. The etiology of the patient's pulmonary hypertension was reported to be HIV (Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus). Current conditions and indication for ambrisentan were updated to include pulmonary 
hypertension and HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus).