Information has been received from an investigator and refers to a 52-year-old white female subject enrolled in a 
study entitled (b) (6)
(b) (6)
The subject's concurrent conditions included hyponatraemia, upper chest pain, dyspnoea exertional, blood alkaline 
phosphatase increased, average diffusion disorder of the lung, moderate restriction of lung, vitamin D deficiency 
and infectious colitis (grade 2) (serious adverse event (SAE), experienced on 22-APR-2015, resolved on 09-JUN-
2015(captured in MARRS #1505DEU002599). The subject's medical history included polyneuropathy of the hands, 
uterine curettage and diarrhea (grade 2) (SAE, captured in MARRS #1504DEU002571, experienced on 30-MAR-
2015 and resolved on 04-APR-2015). Concomitant therapies included cholecalciferol, acetylcysteine (ACC LONG), 
ambroxol hydrochloride (MUCOSOLVAN), dipyrone (NOVAMINSULFON), calcium (unspecified), magnesium 
(unspecified), yeast (EUBIOL), metronidazole (manufacturer unknown) and sodium chloride.
On 05-DEC-2014, the subject was randomized and on 08-DEC-2014 at 10:55, she started therapy with 
pembrolizumab (MK-3475) (2 mg/kg, intravenously, every three weeks (q3w)) for non-small cell lung cancer. 
On (b) (6)  the subject was hospitalized due to suspected epileptic seizure (grade 3). Initial laboratory tests 
showed a significant hyponatremia and slightly increased thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), stool cultures showed
no pathogens. On (b) (6)  at control labs TSH was normal and under substitution hyponatremia was 
resolving. Cranial computerized tomogram (CT) showed no significant findings, magnetic resonance tomography 
(MRT) was planned to rule out a hypophysitis. At the time of this report the suspected epileptic seizure (grade 3) 
was not resolved. Action taken with the study therapy was reported as dose not changed. The last reported dose of 
the study therapy was administered on 29-MAY-2015.
The investigator considered suspected epileptic seizure (grade 3) to be not related to the study therapy or the study
procedure. The event was considered to be not immune related by the investigator.
During the study, the subject also experienced non-serious event: hyponatremia (worsened medical history) (onset 
date unknown) treated with sodium chloride.
Follow up information has been received from the investigator on 16-JUN-2015. In MRT of the brain, no metastasis 
or hypophysitis were shown but a significant progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was shown. So further 
neurologic procedures were performed: Electroencephalogram (EEG) with significant findings (bilateral 
frontotemporal interference changing disorders) of suspected progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and 
symptomatic epilepsy. A fluid puncture was performed but results were partly missing at the moment. Since cranial 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 16 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
radiation in December 2013, a slight progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was known, but now a massive 
increase of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was actually shown. So the Initial adverse event term 
unknown epilepsy seizure could be a symptom of the new event-term. The event term suspected epileptic seizure 
was changed to suspected progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. The subject was temporarily confused and 
felt weak. Hyponatraemia was substituted with Infusion. A symptomatic therapy with levetiracetam (KEPPRA) and 
dexamethasone(manufacturer unknown) was started and at the moment the subject was stable.
The investigator considered suspected progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (grade 3) to be related to the 
study therapy (previously reported as not related). The event suspected progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (grade 3) was considered to be an event of clinical interest and immune related (previously 
reported as not related) by the investigator.
Follow up information was received from the investigator on 22-JUN-2015. The adverse event term was updated to 
(unknown) progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (grade 3) (previously reported as suspected progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (grade 3)). Approximately in (b) (6)  Jamestown Canyon Virus (JCV) test was 
negative, but Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection could be possible. Therefore dexamethasone (manufacturer 
unknown) therapy was interrupted and ganciclovir was initiated. A symptomatic therapy with levetiracetam 
(KEPPRA) was continued. Subject was stable. Concomitant therapy dosage was unknown at the time of this report.
Action taken with study therapy was changed to drug interrupted (previously reported as dose not changed). 
Follow up information was  received from the investigator on 30-JUN-2015. 
The subject recovered from progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy(grade 3) on (b) (6)
Action taken with study therapy was reported as drug withdrawn (previously reported as drug interrupted). Last 
dose of study therapy was reported on 29-MAY-2015.
Additional information has been requested.
Lab data, event outcome, action taken, dechallenge and narrative were updated.
Company Causality Assessment: Based on the limited information currently available for this case, a reasonable 
possibility to suggest a relationship between the investigational therapy and the reported event cannot be 
established.
Company Comment - No changes to the investigational product safety information are warranted at this time. 
Merck/MSD continues to monitor the safety profile of the investigational product.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 17 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information