This case was reported in a literature article and described the occurrence of immune reconstitution inflammatory 
syndrome in a 44-year-old male patient who received lamivudine unknown for hiv infection. (Huis in 't Veld D, 
Lukande R, Lammens M, Conesa-Botella A, Vlieghe E, Van Marck E et al.,. THE IMMUNE RECONSTITUTION 
INFLAMMATORY SYNDROME: A CAUSE OF DEATH IN PERSONS ON ANTIRETROVIRAL THERAPY?. Acta 
Clinica Belgica 2013; 68(4): 294-297.) 
Co-suspect products included abacavir sulphate (Abacavir) unknown for hiv infection, zidovudine unknown for hiv 
infection, saquinavir for hiv infection and ritonavir for hiv infection. 
The patient's past medical history included hemiparesis. Concurrent medical conditions included brain lesion and 
polyomavirus test positive. 
On an unknown date, the patient started lamivudine at an unknown dose and frequency, Abacavir at an unknown 
dose and frequency, zidovudine at an unknown dose and frequency, saquinavir at an unknown dose and frequency 
and ritonavir at an unknown dose and frequency. On an unknown date, 7 days after starting lamivudine, Abacavir 
and zidovudine, the patient experienced immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (serious criteria death, 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 51 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
hospitalization and GSK medically significant), abscess, brain lesion, acid fast stain positive, mycobacterium avium 
complex infection (serious criteria GSK medically significant), fever, dyspnea, appetite lost, fatigue, cytomegalovirus
infection (serious criteria GSK medically significant), pulmonary edema (serious criteria death and GSK medically 
significant), cerebral edema (serious criteria death and GSK medically significant), aspergillosis (serious criteria 
GSK medically significant), progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (serious criteria GSK medically significant), 
bronchopneumonia (serious criteria death and GSK medically significant) and infection. The patient was treated 
with rifampicin, isoniazid (Isoniazide), pyrazinamide, ethambutol, clarithromycin and methylprednisolone. The action
taken with lamivudine was unknown. The action taken with Abacavir was unknown. The action taken with 
zidovudine was unknown. The action taken with saquinavir was unknown. The action taken with ritonavir was 
unknown. On an unknown date, the outcome of the immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, pulmonary 
edema, cerebral edema and bronchopneumonia were fatal and the outcome of the abscess, brain lesion, acid fast 
stain positive, mycobacterium avium complex infection, fever, dyspnea, appetite lost, fatigue, cytomegalovirus 
infection, aspergillosis, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and infection were unknown. The reported 
cause of death was bronchopneumonia, cerebral edema and pulmonary edema. An autopsy was performed. 
The reporter considered the immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome to be related to lamivudine, Abacavir 
and zidovudine. It was unknown if the reporter considered the abscess, brain lesion, acid fast stain positive, 
mycobacterium avium complex infection, fever, dyspnea, appetite lost, fatigue, cytomegalovirus infection, 
pulmonary edema, cerebral edema, aspergillosis, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, bronchopneumonia 
and infection to be related to lamivudine, Abacavir and zidovudine.
Additional details,
This case corresponds to the case 2 in the literature article.
A 44 year old HIV seropositive Caucasian man who had stopped his ART 4 years earlier was hospitalized in 
(b) (6)  because of a left hemiparesis. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain showed a right 
fronto-temporal brain lesion also involving the brain stem. A PCR-test for polyomavirus (JC-virus) on CSF was 
positive. ART was started 15 days later (zidovudine, lamivudine, abacavir, saquinavir and ritonavir) at a CD4 + cell 
count of 10/?L. One week after the start of ART, he developed a submandibular abscess and the brain lesion 
increased. An aspiration of the abscess revealed acid fast bacilli. The abscess was drained and the patient was 
treated with rifampicin, isoniazide, pyrazinamide, ethambutol, claritromycine and methylprednisolone (48 mg a day 
for a month, reduced to 32 mg a day after that, until death). Culture of the pus revealed a MAC-infection and no 
other pathogens. His clinical condition improved, but 6 weeks later he was re-hospitalized because of fever, 
dyspnea, loss of appetite and fatigue. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was 
positive for Cytomegalovirus (CMV) but negative for PJP. A repeat brain MRI revealed further increase of the brain 
lesions. He died (b)(6)  months after the start of ART due to pulmonary and cerebral edema. Postmortem examination 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 52 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
revealed a necrotizing bronchopneumonia due to invasive aspergillosis, CMV-infection of the lungs and presence of
gram positive cocci in the kidneys and a progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) infection of the brain. 
The most likely immediate cause of death was considered to be the bronchopneumonia.
The authors stated "Our second patient developed Mycobacterium avium complex - immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome (MAC-IRIS) which was treated with corticosteroids. His clinical situation improved at first, 
but eventually he developed several infectious problems, including a CMV- and an invasive pulmonary aspergillosis
confirmed by postmortem examination".
The literature article corresponding to this case is not available for regulatory submission due to copyright 
restriction.