This medically confirmed report was received 12JUN2015 from a consumer, who is the patient's sister, via a 
pharmacist from (b) (6) . A 48-year-old male patient began using H P Acthar 
(corticotropin) injection with a concentration of 80 U/ml, 80 units twice weekly via subcutaneous route, to treat 
Sarcoidosis. The patient received his first shipment per the pharmacist on 19MAY2015, the first date of product use
was unknown. The patient was to use the Acthar for 6 weeks. The patient's sister reported that the patient was 
admitted to the hospital on an unknown date for shortness of breath. It was reported by the pharmacist that the 
patient was admitted "despite starting Acthar for Sarcoidosis". Acthar use is ongoing.  The event outcome is 
unknown.
Additional information was received 24JUN2015 from a Nurse Practitioner (NP). The patient had received Acthar to
treat pulmonary sarcoidosis. The patient was hospitalized a few weeks after beginning Acthar treatment. The 
shortness of breath was considered an exacerbation of the pulmonary sarcoidosis and was not related to use of 
Acthar per the NP. There was no component of a lack of effect between the event and the Acthar per the NP. 
Print Time: 13-JAN-2016 12:03 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 30 of 38
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Treatment received while hospitalized was unknown. The patient was reported as currently "stabilized" and 
recovered. 
Condition aggravated
Seriousness: Hospitalized
As Reported Causality: Not Related
As Determined Causality: Unevaluable
Company comment:
This is a solicited report regarding a 48-year-old male who initiated Acthar to be taken for 6 weeks for treatment of 
pulmonary sarcoidosis. Additional medical history and concomitant medications were not provided. The patient 
received his first shipment of Acthar on 19MAY2015. The patient was hospitalized a few weeks after beginning 
Acthar treatment. The shortness of breath was considered an exacerbation of pulmonary sarcoidosis and was not 
related to use of Acthar.  The patient received unknown treatment while hospitalized and recovered. The patient's 
adverse event is likely from progression of pulmonary sarcoidosis and contribution of Acthar is unlikely.