This solicited serious report was received late from (b) (6)  (Specialty Pharmacy ) as part of a retrospective 
review for unreported safety reports associated with Ampyra and forwarded to Acorda on 13-Mar-2015. This report 
was initially received from a patient's spouse in the United States on 09-Jun-2010. Follow-up information was 
received from the consumer (patient's spouse) on 15-Jun-2015. Based on this follow-up, the case was updated to 
solicited case. A male patient, 59 years of age at the time of this report, with multiple sclerosis (MS) was 
hospitalized while on Ampyra. Additional information received the patient experienced progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (hospitalization), cannot speak (medically significant), cannot walk (disability), and cannot eat 
(disabilty), while on Ampyra and Zanaflex.
The patient's past medical history included MS. Concomitant medications at onset included Avonex, Botox, 
Buspirone, Celebrex, Prozac, and Provigil; dosing information, start dates, and indications were not provided. 
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on an unspecified date at 10 mg, by mouth (PO), Q 12 hrs for MS. Zanaflex 
(tizanidine) was started on an unspecified date for an unknown indication; dosing information was not provided. 
Tysabri (nataluzimab) was assessed as a co-suspect medication, starting on an unknown date for an unknown 
indication.
On an unspecified date, the patient was hospitalized. No additional information was provided. Upon follow-up on 
15-Jun-2015, the patient's wife stated that the patient was hospitalized on an unspecified date in 2010, for 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) due to Tysabri. The patient had a plasmapheresis to remove the
Tysabri from his blood. Due to the PML, the patient cannot speak, walk, or eat. The events were not recovered. The
patient discontinued Ampyra and Tysabri on an unspecified date in 2010 due to the events. The wife stated that the 
event was not related to Ampyra, it was related to Tysabri. No additional information was provided.
The outcome of the events was not recovered/not resolved. 
Zanaflex action taken was unknown. The action taken with Ampyra and Tysabri was drug withdrawn on an 
unspecified date in 2010.
The reporter (patient's wife) assessed the relationship between Ampyra and the events as not related. The reporter 
(patient's spouse) did not assess the relationship between Zanaflex and the events.
Follow-up information received from the patient's spouse on 15-Jun-2015 upgraded this case to solicited case and 
included: additional events, hospitalization reason and dates. outcome, action taken with Ampyra, additional co-
suspect medication, and physician information. This information has been incorporated into the narrative.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 73 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information