This case, manufacturer control number 2015-0160814 is a spontaneous report from Italy Regulatory Authority (IT-
AIFA-315374) referring to a 40-year-old female patient. The physician reported the following events for this case: 
multifocal progressive leukoencephalopathy (PML), liver condition worsened, coma poly-factorial nature (HIV 
related, linked to PML, and to hepatic decompensation), encephalopathy poly-factorial nature (HIV related, PML, 
hepatic decompensation), near syncopal episode, fall to the ground, back pain, and multiple vertebral collapse. 
Medical history included: Current conditions: hepatitis C, hepatic cirrhosis, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, 
and HIV infection. Historical condition: splenectomy and transfusion after poly-trauma in 2000, ectopic pregnancy in
2007, and episode of hyperammonaemic encephalopathy in liver cirrhosis HCV-related (Child 87 MELD 13) for 
which patient was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  Historical drug: None Reported.
In January 2014, access to the Expanded Access Program for daclatasvir (active drug of all genotypes of HCV, not 
yet on the market, with the pivotal studies already completed) was requested in order to build an effective and 
especially well tolerated regimen, based on sofosbuvir and daclatasvir. 
The patient began protocol AI444-203 - dalcatasvir expanded access on 31-MAR-2015, with start of Sovaldi 
(sofosbuvir) 400 mg, QD for treatment of hepatitis C and co-suspect medication daclatasvir 60 mg, QD for 
treatment of hepatitis C. 
Concomitant medications were not reported.
On (b) (6)  the patient was hospitalized following the occurrence of a near-syncopal episode with fall to the 
ground followed by back pain. Radiographs documented multiple vertebral collapse. A brain CT scan was also 
performed with indication to perform a MRI after detection of cerebral white matter lesions. The patient underwent a
brain MRI that revealed multiple brain lesions at the level of the white matter, consistent with Progressive multifocal 
Leukoencephalopathy (PML). The suspected diagnosis was confirmed after demonstration of KCV-DNA in CSF 
collected from the patient (date not provided). During hospitalization (exact date not provided), the liver condition 
further worsened (hepatic decompensation). The patient developed a framework of encephalopathy of poly-factorial
nature (HIV related, linked to PML, linked to hepatic decompensation). with onset of coma and then death on (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  The patient died as a result of a multifactorial coma, related to HIV infection, PML and decompensated 
liver cirrhosis. 
Relevant laboratory/diagnostic tests included:
Date not provided, Blood creatinine, 2.76 mg, 
Date not provided, Blood bilirubin, 4.76 mg, 
(b) (6)  X-ray, multiple vertebral collapse
(b) (6)  Computerized tomogram head, cerebral white matter lesions
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 93 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(b) (6)  Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging, multiple brain lesions at the level of white matter consistent 
with PML
(b) (6) , Hepatitis C virus test, negative 
Action taken with sofosbuvir and daclatasvir was drug discontinued on (b) (6)  for the worsening of the 
general framework, despite the virological efficacy. 
The physician's assessment of the events to sofosbuvir and daclatasvir was not related; reported as "objectively, it 
is not considered that the drug used for the treatment of the patient have played a role in the deterioration of the 
general state of the patient, seriously undermined by the underlying pathologies."
Multifocal progressive leukoencephalopathy was serious with an outcome of fatal.
Liver condition worsened.hepatic decompensation/decompensated liver cirrhosis was serious with an outcome of 
fatal.
Coma poly-factorial nature (HIV related, linked to PML, and to hepatic decompensation) was serious with an 
outcome of fatal.
Encephalopathy poly-factorial nature (HIV related, PML, hepatic decompensation) was serious with an outcome of 
fatal.
Near syncopal episode was serious with an outcome of not reported.
Fall to the ground was serious with an outcome of not reported.
Back pain was serious with an outcome of not reported.
Multiple vertebral collapse was serious with an outcome of not reported.
The initial report was received by Gilead on 26 June 2015.