Information was received on 12-Jun-2015 2015 by Astellas license partner Janssen and forwarded to Astellas on 
22-Jun-2015. This is a unsponsored study case reported by a investigator referring to a female patient age 
unknown who experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy during bendamustine hydrochloride (Teva 
product cannot be ruled out) treatment. The patient was enrolled in (b) (6)
This study was 
transitioned to open label following interim unblinding performed on 18-Mar-2015.
Other suspect drug used were rituximab (non Teva) intravenous unknown freq. for Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, 
lymphocytic lymphoma starting from an unspecified date and ibrutinib (non Teva) (capsule, oral) dose, frequency, 
and dates not provided for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and lymphocytic lymphoma.
No medical history was provided. 
No concomitant medication information was provided. 
The patient received bendamustine hydrochloride for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, lymphocytic lymphoma 
according to the following dosage regimen: (start date not provided) - (stop date not provided): intravenous, 
unknown freq.
On an unspecified date the patient developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and was hospitalized. 
No lab test information was provided. 
The treatment with ibrutinib, bendamustine hydrochloride and rituximab was withdrawn.
The outcome of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was not reported.
The investigator assessed the following events with respect to bendamustine hydrochloride, ibrutinib and rituximab:
 - Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (seriousness: Hospitalization; causality: Not Assessed)
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 80 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Follow-up information was received on 12-Jun-2015 by Astellaslicense partner, Janssen and forwarded to Astellas 
on 09-Nov-2015. New or updated information included: unblinded information and suspect drug (ibrutinib) added.
Sender comment: The Astellas Medical Reviewer assessed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as serious
due to hospitalization and the causal relationship to bendamustine hydrochloride conservatively as possible based 
on the implied timelines. Underlying malignancy and co-suspect drugs rituximab and ibrutinib are confounders.