Literature report: Christopher.C et al; Efficacy and safety of alirocumab in high cardiovascular risk patients with 
inadequately controlled hypercholesterolaemia on maximally tolerated doses of statins: THE ODYSSEY COMBO II 
randomized controlled trial; European Heart Journal; 2015; 36(19):1186-1194.
Information has been received from a published literature article titled as above.
Hypercholesterolaemia was a major risk factor for the development of atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease 
(CHD). Reducing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) with statins lowers the risk of CHD events and all-
cause mortality and there was a clear relation between the degree of absolute LDL-C lowering and the degree of 
cardiovascular event reduction. Consequently, LDL-C reduction was the primary target to reduce cardiac event. 
Print Time: 13-JAN-2016 09:47 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 1 of 34
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
COMBO II was an ongoing double-blind, double-dummy, active controlled, parallel-group, 104-week study of 
alirocumab versus. ezetimibe in high cardiovascular risk subjects with inadequately controlled 
hypercholesterolaemia on maximally tolerated doses of statins. The study was conducted at 126 sites. Subjects 
had hypercholesterolaemia and established CHD or CHD risk equivalents (ischaemic stroke, peripheral artery 
disease, moderate chronic kidney disease, or diabetes mellitus plus 2 additional risk factors), and be treated with a 
maximally tolerated dose of statin therapy. Eligible subjects entered a screening period of up to 3 weeks before 
randomization during which they were trained to self-inject using a pre filled pen (autoinjector), vital signs were 
taken, a 12-lead electrocardiogram was performed, and fasting blood and urine samples were obtained. Eligible 
subjects were randomized to alirocumab or ezetimibe (manufacturer unknown) through an interactive voice 
response system, using a permuted-block design with a 2:1 allocation ratio. To attain balance between arms for 
factors that might have influenced treatment response, subjects were stratified according to history of myocardial 
infarction or ischaemic stroke, intensity of statin treatment, and geographic region. After randomization, subjects 
entered a double-blind, double dummy treatment period lasting 104 weeks. Subjects were randomized to either 
subcutaneous (SC) alirocumab 75 mg (in 1 ml volume) every 2 weeks (Q2W) (plus oral placebo for ezetimibe daily)
or 10 mg oral for ezetimibe (manufacturer unknown) daily (plus placebo SC Q2W for alirocumab) and continued to 
receive their background statin therapy. The dose in the alirocumab arm (only) was automatically increased, per 
protocol, at Week 12 to 150 mg Q2W (1 ml volume) if the Week-8 LDL-C value was greater than or equal to 1.8 
mmol/L. Investigators and subjects remained blinded to any dose increase. The study was ongoing at the time of 
writing, and randomized treatment will continue until Week 104, followed by an 8-week post-treatment observational
period. Subjects were instructed to remain on a stable diet [National Cholesterol Education Program Adult 
Treatment Panel Ill (NCEP ATP Ill) therapeutic lifestyle changes diet or equivalent] and to maintain the same daily 
statin dose throughout the study. The primary endpoint was percent change in calculated LDL-C from baseline to 
Week24, using all C value from Week24regardless of adherence to treatment [intent-to-treat (ITT) approach]. 
Principal secondary efficacy endpoints included: percent change in calculated LDL-C from baseline to Week 24 
(on-treatment analysis), and from baseline to Weeks 12 (ITT/on-treatment analysis) or 52 (ITT analysis); percent 
change in Apolipoprotein B, non-HDL-C, total cholesterol, lipoprotein a, HDL-C, fasting triglycerides, and 
Apolipoprotein A-1 from baseline to Week 24 (ITT analysis), and proportion of patients reaching calculated LDL-C 
<1.8 mmol/L at week 24 (ITT/on-treatment analysis). A total of 1112 high cardiovascular risk subjects were 
screened, 720 of whom were eligible and consented to participate. Of these, 479 were randomly assigned to 
alirocumab and 241 to ezetimibe. Rates of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) over a mean of 58 plus or 
minus 19 weeks follow-up. The overall percentages of subjects who experienced at least one TEAE were 71.2% in 
the alirocumab arm and 67.2% in the ezetimibe arm. A TEAE leading to death occurred in 0.4% of patients in the 
alirocumab arm (both of cardiac origin) and in 1.7% of patients in the ezetimibe arm (two of cardiac origin). Similar 
percentages of subjects in both groups experienced a serious adverse event (18.8% alirocumab versus 17.8% 
ezetimibe). A higher proportion of patients in the alirocumab group experienced TEAEs leading to treatment 
discontinuation (7.5 versus. 5.4%), with no specific pattern in type of adverse event. There was no imbalance in 
Print Time: 13-JAN-2016 09:47 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 2 of 34
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
TEAEs at the system organ class level. The most common TEAEs (occurring in greater than or equal to 5% of 
patients from either treatment arm) were upper respiratory tract infection, accidental overdose, dizziness, and 
myalgia. Adjudicated cardiovascular events were infrequent, occurring in 4.8% of the alirocumab group versus. 
3.7% in the ezetimibe group. Treatment emergent local injection site reactions occurred in 2.5% of subjects in the 
alirocumab arm versus. 0.8% for ezetimibe/placebo injections. Reactions were of mild intensity, except for one of 
moderate intensity, and none were serious; two events led to discontinuation in the alirocumab group. Few 
neurocognitive events took place in either group. Abnormalities in laboratory measurements were uncommon and 
occurred at similar rates in both groups. Exceptions were the incidence of elevated alanine aminotransaminase, 
which was more frequent in the alirocumab group, and impaired glucose control, which was less frequent in the 
alirocumab group. One-hundred and five (22.8% of 460) patients in the alirocumab arm and none in the ezetimibe 
arm had two consecutive LDL-C values <0.65 mmol/L during the treatment period. Rates of TEAEs in this group 
were similar to those in the ezetimibe group, with the exception of nasopharyngitis, which was more frequent in the 
alirocumab group.
This report refers to a 61 year old white male. The subject current condition included coronary artery disease, 
anxiety and depression.  On an unknown date, the subject started therapy with ezetimibe (manufacturer unknown), 
oral (10 mg, qd). Other suspect therapy included alirocumab. On an unknown date (also reported as on day 367 of 
study), the subject committed suicide. The investigator reported that the subject complained to his wife of 
depression and unwillingness to live due to the severity of his coronary artery disease. The subject did not complain
to investigators of depression during site visits but he did report moderate anxiety/ depression and severe anxiety/ 
depression at his last visit. The causality of completed suicide was assessed to be related to ezetimibe 
(manufacturer unknown).
The reporter considered the report serious due to death. Upon internal review the events committed suicide was 
considered serious as medically significant.
Follow up information has been received on 08-JUL-2015, from the primary reporter who stated that he forwarded 
information regarding subject identifier, lot number, subject's death certificate/or autopsy copy to the owner of the 
study. These information would need to come from them. 
Follow-up information has been received on 20-JUL-2015. On that day, a phone call was received from Sanofi that 
no information was available to share concerning this study. It was an ongoing study and there was no contractual 
agreement with Sanofi.
A copy of the published article is attached as further documentation of the subject's experience.
Print Time: 13-JAN-2016 09:47 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 3 of 34
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
This is one of several reports received from the same literature (linked with MARRS# 1506USA015417, MARRS# 
1506USA015418, MARRS# 1506USA015413 and MARRS# 1506USA014887).
Additional information is not expected as no more information was available to share and all scheduled 
correspondence was canceled..
Narrative was updated.