This unsolicited case from United Kingdom was received on 30-Jun-2015 via a literature draft.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy with Behcet's disease. Annals of neurology.
This case involves a 33 year old female patient who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and 
later died after receiving treatment with alemtuzumab for Behcet's disease (off label use) .
Genzyme recently received a literature case (a manuscript in preparation, actually) regarding a fatal case of PML in 
a patient with life-threatening Behcet's disease who had received multiple immunomodulatory therapies off-label, 
including several TNF inhibitors, rituximab, and alemtuzumab.  This patient reportedly had severe Behcet's disease 
diagnosed in August 2005, with orogenital ulceration, and with cutaneous, joint and intestinal involvement.  While at
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 129 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
first sustaining a partial remission with infliximab, she subsequently developed an infusion reaction to this agent, 
and consequently was switched to etanercept and then adalimumab for a further 10 months, but without achieving 
a full remission.  In June 2006 she started treatment with rituximab, but again without achieving full disease control.
Her disease course during this period was complicated by multiple infections, recurrent episodes of acute kidney 
injury and the requirement for parenteral nutritional supplementation. In June 2007, she received alemtuzumab first 
course (60 mg total dose), and for the first time since presentation, entered stable remission with attendant 
improvements in quality of life and nutritional status.  Over subsequent 7 years, she received a further 6 courses of 
alemtuzumab (each 60 mg total dose) and she remained well with intermittent low-grade features of Behcet's 
disease activity.
In May 2014, 6 months after her last course of alemtuzumab, she presented with a two-week history of right facial 
droop and limb weakness, along with progressive sensory symptoms and other findings.  MRI showed white matter 
signal abnormalities in the subcortical and juxtacortical areas of left frontal lobe, with extension into the parietal 
subcortical white matter.  JC virus PCR was positive in CSF and blood; this was detected at PCR amplification of 
33 (suggesting low level of JC virus positivity).  Further MRI showed progressive white matter changes; treatment 
with i.v. immunoglobulin and mirtazapine was given but proved ineffective.  She was discharged 6 weeks following 
hospital admission and died at home two months later.  An autopsy was not reported.
Corrective treatment: immunoglobulins and mirtazapine for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
Outcome: Unknown for the event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
Seriousness criteria: hospitalization for the event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.