Case number# PHEH2015US012447, is an initial report received on 26 Jun 2015 from a physician via patient 
oriented program (POP ID: POP00002581, Gilenya Go Program). This report refers to a 51-year-old female patient.
The patient's historical condition included fall and fractured right hip (fell of horses in youth). Past medications 
included Tysabri (natalizumab), she did well on this and steroid treatments. The patient's current conditions 
included hypokinesia, wheelchair user, back pain, intervertebral disc disorder, osteoporosis (as a result of previous 
recurring steroid treatments), tobacco user (1 packet per day), alcohol use and family stress. It was elaborated that 
due to the fractured right hip, her ambulation was impaired five years ago. The patient was now wheelchair bound. 
The patient had a lot of low back pain which was related to lumbar spinal disease. Family history included that her 
husband died of cancer. The patient was newly widowed and stayed at home mom and she had a lot of stress at 
home with her children. No concomitant medication was reported. 
The patient received Gilenya (fingolimod) capsule, orally, for the treatment of multiple sclerosis from 23 Feb 2012 at
a dose of 0.5 mg, QD. 
The patient has history of multiple sclerosis for past 10 years. It had been relapsing progressive. The patient had 
significant pathology in multiple areas of the neuraxis. Over the years she has had a number of MRI's (magnetic 
resonance imaging) that showed progression. Physician reviewed most recent one from 2014 and showed 
significant white matter disease (white matter lesion) including Dawson s fingers involvement of the brainstem and 
multilevel involvement of the cervical and thoracic spinal cord. MRI of the lumbosacral spine (nuclear magnetic 
resonance imaging spinal) showed some bulging disk (intervertebral disc protrusion) on an unknown date. The 
patient had been on multiple medications and had failed all of them cleaning all the injectable. Apparently, the 
patient had antibiotic and physician believed this represented JC virus but the patient was not sure. The patient had
done reasonably well for the past year on Gilenya. On an unknown date, patient developed "rare UTI" (urinary tract 
infection). On examination she was awake but had somewhat of a subcortical dementia (dementia), slurred speech 
(dysarthria), some disconjugate gaze" (gaze palsy), had a left gaze evoked nystagmus" (nystagmus), right sided 
drift and weakness in right side compared to left (hemiparesis) with a right sided hyperreflexia right (hyperreflexia) 
Babinski sign (extensor plantar response). The patient was able to stand but not to walk (abasia) and she was able 
to transfer. On an unknown date the patient experienced "multiple sclerosis secondary progressive fairly advanced 
with weakness right more than left" (secondary progressive multiple sclerosis and asthenia), difficulties with 
ambulation and probably a subcortical dementia. On 19 Jun 2015, test stratifies JCV (TM) Ab w/reflex showed 
positive result (JC virus test positive). Therapy status with Gilenya was ongoing. Outcome of the events was 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 126 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
reported as condition worsened.
Seriousness of the events was not reported. Seriousness of the events (intervertebral disc protrusion, dementia 
and white matter lesion) was upgraded based on the available information in the source document. Seriousness of 
the events (secondary progressive multiple sclerosis, gaze palsy and hemiparesis) was upgraded based on NVS-
IME list. Causality of the events was not reported.