This case has been considered invalid: unidentifiable patient.
This is a spontaneous literature report from the Modern Rheumatology, 2008, 18; 72-5 entitled "Successful use of 
etanercept in the treatment of acute lupus hemophagocytic syndrome" which was referenced in Modern 
Rheumatology, 2015, 25(4),  642-645, entitled "Tnf-alpha inhibitors in systemic lupus erythematosus. A case report 
and a systematic literature review".   A patient of unspecified age ethnicity and gender started to receive etanercept 
(ETANERCEPT)  via an unspecified route of administration from an unspecified date to an unspecified date at an 
unspecified dose for erosive arthritis and Refractory hemophagocitosis.  Medical history included systemic lupus 
erythematosus (SLE) from an unknown date and unknown if ongoing.  The patient's concomitant medications were 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 141 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
not reported.  The patient experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and died on an unspecified 
date.  The action taken in response to the event for etanercept was not applicable.  It was not reported if an autopsy
was performed. 
At the end of the selection process, a total of 12 articles were included in the SLR, 4 clinical trials and 8 case 
reports (Table 3). One case of fatal progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy has been described in a SLE 
patient with erosive arthritis under treatment etanercept.
Table 3. Evidence table: case reports.
Author, year of publication: Takahashi N, 2008
No. of patients: 1
Organ involvement indication: Refractory hemophagocitosis
Drug: Etanercept
Outcome: Symptoms resolution
Follow-up (24Jul2015): This follow-up report is being submitted to amend previously reported information. The 
narrative of the previous submission contained information pertaining to a 25-year old female who is not a patient in
this case.
This case has been considered Invalid for unidentifiable patient. The 2015 Modern Rheumatology literature report 
referred to a patient in a 2008 Modern Rheumatology literature report who experience progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy and died. However, the 2008 article does not contain any information about a patient who 
experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Upon re-review, the 2015 article did not provide any 
patient identifiers for the patient who experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and there is no 
indication the author had first-hand knowledge of the patient.  Therefore, this case is considered to be invalid for 
unidentifiable patient.
Follow-up (29Jul2015): This follow-up report is being submitted to amend previously reported information: to amend
patient history and laboratory data.
Sender Comment: Based on available information, a possible contributory role of the subject drug cannot be 
excluded for the reported event due to temporal relationship. However, the reported event may possibly represent 
intercurrent medical condition in this patient. There is limited information provided in this report. Incomplete 
information does not permit a meaningful causality assessment.  Additional information is needed to better assess 
the case, including complete medical history, diagnostics including Head CT/MRI at baseline and during drug 
therapy, autopsy results, brain biopsy, chemistry panel and serum toxicology screen, counteractive treatment 
measures and concomitant medications. This case will be reassessed once additional information is available. 
The impact of this report on the benefit/risk profile of the Pfizer product is evaluated as part of Pfizer procedures for
safety evaluation, including the review and analysis of aggregate data for adverse events. Any safety concern 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 142 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
identified as part of this review, as well as any appropriate action in response, will be promptly notified to Regulatory
Authorities, Ethics Committees and Investigators, as appropriate.