Takeda pharmaceutical company received this case report from JNJ on 13-Jul-2015 (Ref: ES-JNJFOC-
The following description and the causality were taken as received from the case report provided by JNJ.
This spontaneous report was received from literature:LAndrs Mar-n N, Gonzalo Yubero N, Tainta Cuezva M, 
Mu oz Lopetegui A, Mat- nez Zabaleta MT, Urtasun Ocriz MA, et al. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy: 
The image as a key test. Rev Neurol 2015; 60 (7):331-334. 
This report concerns a 64-year-old male patient. The patient's height and weight were not reported. The patient's 
medical history included kidney carcinoma, pancreas carcinoma and thyroid carcinoma. The patient's concurrent 
condition included multiple myeloma. The patient was treated with vincristine, doxorubicin, dexamethasone, 
zolendronic acid, autologous haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation with melphalan, octreotide and sunitinib.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 138 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The last treatment received was bendamustine, bortezomib aand dexamethasone. The patient was treated with 
bortezomib (lyophilized powder, unspecified route) initiated on an unspecified date for multiple myeloma. 
Concomitant medications included dexamethasone and bendamustine hydrochloride for multiple myeloma. After 
two months from the last dose of bortezomib, the patient experienced speech disorder and a clumsiness of right 
upper extremity. A cerebral magnetic resonance (MRI scan) showed lesions of white substance compatible with 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of JC virus (John 
Cunningham virus) in the cerebrospinal fluid was negative. The neuroimaging was performed again after 4 and 7 
months due to the clinical worsening of the patient, detecting progression of lesions. The PCR of the JC virus was 
negative in two more occasions. The patient denied performing cerebral biopsy. As the symptoms and 
neuroimaging were compatible, an empiric treatment with mirtazapine and mefloquine was decided. Action taken 
with bortezomib was not applicable. In the checkups performed in the five months of treatment, there was clinical 
improvement and partial resolution of lesion. The patient was recovering from progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy.
This report was serious (medically significant).
Revision to the information received on 06-JUL-2015. Upon review, the following correction was made.
This version was created to a add Spanish translation. No change was made to the case and a Spanish narrative 
was added for electronic submission to Spain.
Company Comment:
Based on the information provided, a causal association between administration of Velcade and the event of 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy cannot be confirmed