AER 1607951 is a literature spontaneous case, received from a physician to Zenyaku Kogyo Co., LTD (Japan; 
1508750) on 06/Jul/2015 and at Roche on 13/Jul/2015 and concerns a 79 year-old female patient  who developed 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy whilst beint treated with rituximab (Rituxan).
The patient's concomitant medication included cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisolone.  The 
patient's medical history, concurrent illness and past drugs were not reported. 
The patient received 2 cycles of rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisolone (R-CHOP) 
therapy (dose, frequency, route not reported) for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.  Approximately 5 months after the 
therapy, she experienced subacutely progressing gait disorder, cognitive dysfunction, and others.  Head MRI 
revealed lesions from the subcortical white matter through the deep white matter in the occipital-parietal lobes, 
which showed high signal intensity on T2-weighted images and FLAIR images, and low signal intensity on T1-
weighted images.  The lesions enlarged to the contralateral side over time, and progressive multifocal 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 151 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
leukoencephalopathy was suspected. At a later day, JC virus PCR was found to be positive. CD4-positive cells 
markedly decreased. 
At the time of this report, the outcome of the event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was not reported 
and there was insufficient information regarding the rituximab therapy ongoing status.
The reporter did not provide the causality assessment for the event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
in relation to rituximab.
The company assessed the event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as medically significant.
Tsuneyama A. 
A case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy after remission of malignant lymphoma. 
Chiba Medical Journal 2015; 91(3): 147.
Additional information was received on 17/Jul/2015. following information was added to the case: the author has 
declined to provide any further information.