Based upon additional information received on 08-Jul-2015 from the patient, the case previously considered non-
serious was upgraded to serious as previously reported event of JC virus test positive was reassessed as serious 
as per IME list
Initial information regarding clinical sponsored solicited case received from United States on 02-Apr-2015 from 
consumer via MS one to one nurse.
This case involves a 48 years old female patient (Patient ID: (b) (6) ) whose menstrual cycle that started on 
the 14th of March was experiencing another cycle that started at or near when she started teriflunomide, was JC 
virus test positive and her menses were with heavy flow (latency: unknown for all) and experienced hair loss after 
few months of starting teriflunomide (Aubagio).
No relevant medical history, past drug, concomitant medication or concurrent condition was reported. 
On 28-Mar-2015, the patient initiated treatment with oral teriflunomide, at a dose of 7 mg daily (lot/batch no. and 
expiry date unknown) for multiple sclerosis. 
On an unknown date in 2015, and after an unspecified latency, the patient's menstrual cycle that started on the 14th
of March was experiencing another cycle that started at or near when she started her teriflunomide. As per patient 
her menses was what she considers a heavy flow. She also reported that she was She was referred to her MD. 
She was referred to her MD. Upon follow-up, patient stated that she started to notice hair loss about 2 weeks ago 
(onset date: Jun-2015, latency: few months). She stated that she did not have this issue before starting 
teriflunomide. She will tell her HCP as soon as possible.
Action taken: No action taken
Corrective treatment: Not reported
Outcome: Not Recovered/ Not Resolved for hair loss and Unknown for rest all the events
Reporter Causality: Not reported
Company Causality: Not associated for hair loss and associated for rest all the events
The event of JC virus test positive was assessed as serious as per IME list
Additional information was received on 08-Jul-2015 from the patient: The case previously considered non-serious 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 146 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
was upgraded to serious as previously reported event of JC virus test positive was reassessed as serious as per 
IME list, event hair loss was added and text was amended accordingly