This case was reported by a other health professional via call center representative and described the occurrence 
of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in a 39-year-old female patient who received lamivudine, zidovudine 
(Combivir) film-coated tablet for hiv infection. 
Concurrent medical conditions included hiv infection. 
On an unknown date, the patient started Combivir (oral) 150/300 mg 1 dosage form(s) twice daily (2 dosage 
form(s) daily). On (b) (6)  an unknown time after starting Combivir, the patient experienced progressive
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (serious criteria death and GSK medically significant). On an unknown date, the 
patient experienced hospice care. On (b) (6)  the outcome of the progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy was fatal. On an unknown date, the outcome of the hospice care was unknown. The patient 
died on (b) (6)  The reported cause of death was progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 154 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The reporter considered the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and hospice care to be unrelated to 
Combivir.
Additional Details: The reporter (social worker) describes a female patient that was taking Combivir 150mg/300mg 
one tablet twice daily to treat HIV.  She passed away on (b) (6)  from Progressive Multifocal 
Leukoencephalopathy.  She was receiving hospice care and passed away at home.  The reporter states that her 
death had nothing to do with the product.
Follow up information was received on 14 July 2015 via a returned Adverse Event Report form. The patient 
weighed 240 pounds and was 61 inches tall. The patient was not pregnant. An autopsy was not performed. In 
response to whether the events could have been associated with the patient's medical history or concurrent illness 
the following diagnoses were provided: deep vein thrombosis (DVT), expressive aphasia, acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), Gliosis, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, obesity, dyspepsia, 
gastroesophageal reflux disease, hyperlipidemia, tachycardia, and anemia.