Case number# PHEH2015US013181, is a combined initial and follow up report received on 07 Jul 2015 from a 
physician (medical notes) via a patient oriented program (POP ID: POP00002581, Gilenya Go Program). This 
report refers to an adult female patient.
The patient's historical condition included UTI (urinary tract infection), dizziness (suffered 3 months of dizziness 
associated with UTI now resolved), sunburn, dysphagia (usually if it happened it was on the first sip of water) and 
speech disorder (occasionally patient's husband told her to stop and repeat what she said, because the words were
mixed up; the patient did not think they were ever dysarthric). The patient's concurrent conditions included ankle 
injury (Jan 2012) (still had not healed correctly), corrective lens user, faecal incontinence (does not feel rectal 
fullness to know when to go) (Nov 2012), urinary incontinence (she currently has to strain to initiate urination, she 
was due to had a urodynamic study), groin numbness (Nov 2012), balance disorder (she had a feeling of imbalance
and finds herself falling into things in her house), muscle fatigue, pain in extremity since Nov 2012 (current pain 
symptoms include an intermittent left flank and left thigh / gluteal burning pain, spasms in ribs, bilateral lower 
extremity pain from knee to ankle, bilateral hands), muscle spasms (spasms in rib), dyspnoea, fatigue, muscular 
weakness (she feels weak in her hands and in the left leg), fall (she falls at least 1/week), walking aid user (walking 
with a cane to stand herself), drug hypersensitivity (Augmentin (Amoxicillin sodium, clavulanate potassium), 
codeine, morphine, Vicodin (hydrocodone bitartrate, paracetamol), Bactrim (sulfamethoxazole, trimethoprim), 
Biaxin (clarithromycin), Reglan (metoclopramide)), polycystic ovaries, depression, anxiety (she had a lot of anxiety; 
no panic attacks; when she felt anxiety, she would be in a dark and quiet room and would perform breathing 
exercises), tremor (she had a feeling of tremor in her eyes, though she had no visual disturbances with this, it was 
improved by closing her left eye or both eyes; she had tremor in both hands which would not present at rest, it was 
more postural, it sometimes caused her to drop things), dysuria, gait disturbance, constipation, visual impairment 
(cranial nerves: color vision 12/12 OD and 11/12 OS), pupillary reflex impaired, optic nerve disorder, nystagmus, 
ataxia, hypersomnia (goes to bed around 10.30 but not regular hours, son wakes up frequently. Gets up for Scholl 
at 6.30, on weekend 8-8.30. She sleeps like a rock with Lyrica (pregabalin) and baclofen), spasms in ribs, limb 
discomfort, vertigo (if she closed her eyes she feels stable (unless she tips her head back, which induce vertigo)) 
and short term memory troubling (used phone for call for all notes, calendar. Some trouble with some retrieval. Had
cognitive testing with occupational therapy). This poly-medicated patient received Gilenya (fingolimod) capsule, 
orally, for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) from an unknown date in Aug 2013 at a dose of 0.5 mg, QD. 
The patient underwent tympanoplasty (tympanic membrane repair) and ankle fracture surgery (in October and left, 
18 Oct 2013) on an unknown date. On 12 Jun 2014, Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of brain revealed 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 167 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
interval increase in size and more confluent plaques identified at the level of C2 (central nervous system lesion), 
which was new from the prior study. No contrast enhancement identified, MRI thoracic spine revealed new spinal 
cord lesion at T7-8 (central nervous system lesion) and stable lesion at the level of T8. No contrast enhancement 
identified. In 18 Jun 2014, it was reported as MS had remained clinically stable after recently switched to Gilenya 
but she had been getting more infection after starting Gilenya (infection). Although it was possible side effect of 
Gilenya but since Gilenya had been effectively controlling her MRI lesions in contrast to last few DMT after 
discussing the risk and benefit she decided to stay on Gilenya. Since her last visit, she had had good days and bad 
days. She initially thought that the Tecfidera (dimethyl fumarate) was working well but her bad days seemed to 
become more often recently. Specifically, her fatigue was becoming disabling (fatigue) on an unknown date, the 
patient would fall asleep in the middle of activities frequently (sudden onset of sleep). The patient started on Provigil
a few months ago but she did not notice any difference. Her memory had also become an issue recently (memory 
impairment). On 18 Jun 2014, T25-FW (walking distance test) was 9.8 (time) and JC virus test on 18 Jun 2014 was
3.63 (positive) (JC virus test positive). On 03 Oct 2014, lymphocyte count was 0.3l (at 12.14. (Range: 850-3900/ul)).
On 03 Dec 2014, brain MRI (nuclear magnetic resonance) revealed resolution of the subtle enhancement within a 
white matter lesion within the right occipital lobe on most recent prior study. Otherwise stable extensive white 
matter signal lesions without new areas of diffusion restriction or abnormal, enhancement to suggest active 
demyelination, C-spine revealed no significant interval change given differences in technique/field strength in the 
subtle cord lesion at the C3 level, with less prominent lesion at the C2 level. No new suspicious enhancement to 
suggest active demyelination. On 10 Dec 2014, walking distance test was 6.3 (time), lymphocyte count was 254l (at
14.55 (range: 850-3900/ul)) and component VITD25H value 17.4. As of 10 Dec 2014, balance was still off () but 
otherwise, the patient felt better; she started Gilenya in August and did so for tolerating well. On an unknown date in
Dec 2014, brain imaging was abnormal (CEL 12/14 s) and spinal imaging abnormal (12/14 s). In the chart 
communication of 31 Dec 2014, it was reported that the frequent infection can be due to low WBC (lymphopenia). 
Unfortunately there was no evidence that support prophylactic use of Tamiflu can help. 
Gilenya was a strong medication to control the MS (multiple sclerosis) but if have more infection on this medication 
compare to past, the patient can move for future appointment to a sooner time to discuss switching medication. 
The patient was going over how many times had been sick recently (malaise) and had at least four ear infections in 
two months plus sinus infection and now had flu (influenza), fever of 100.1 (pyrexia), coughing (cough) and really 
bad chills (chills). The patient had had seven ear infections and four sinus infections since Nov (unspecified year). 
The patient had been on Levaquin (levofloxacin) since Dec 2013 for a severe ear infection. The patient had not 
been feeling up to going to the physician again. The patient had infection once or twice a year but this was very 
unusual to have this many infection. The patient was here today to discuss switching DMT. In the chart 
communication of 16 Mar 2015, the physician reported that they can see increased infection frequency with Gilenya
and the patient was probably right about this issue but recommended to continue it until he see the patient in clinic 
then they can decide what other option the patient can try. This process took time and there was high risk of 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 168 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
relapse after stopping Gilenya so we do not want this gap be very long. The patient tried to get an appointment to 
come see the physician since the patient think a medication change had to happen. The patient reported that her 
low WBC count was not helping in all around health. It concerned the patient because the patient feel like it's kind 
of helping MS. I patient still have massive fatigue and left leg and foot gave problems. Hands still tremble. But it's a 
lot better since been on Gilenya. It's just all the other stuff and it's becoming horrible for the patient. Motor strength 
(MRC scale) R-L revealed deltoid, biceps, triceps, knee EX, knee FX, wrist Ex, plantar, grip, ankle dorsiflex as 5-4, 
hip as Fx-5-5 and tone was increased LLE. Reflexes (MRC Scale) revealed biceps, triceps, achilles, 
bronchoradialis, toes as 2/2, quadrips as 3/3, down/down. Romberg test on an unknown date was positive. Motor 
strength (MRC scale) R-L revealed deltoid, biceps, triceps, knee EX, knee FX, wrist Ex, plantar, grip, ankle 
dorsiflex as 5-4, hip as Fx-5-5 and tone was increased LLE. Reflexes (MRC Scale) revealed biceps, triceps, 
achilles, bronchoradialis, toes as 2/2, quadrips as 3/3, down/down. Therapy status of Gilenya was ongoing at the 
time of this report. Outcome of the events was not reported. 
Seriousness of the events was not reported. Seriousness of the event ear infection, influenza, central nervous 
system lesion and sinusitis were upgraded based on information available in the source document. Causality of the 
events was not reported.