This case was reported by a physician via sales rep and described the occurrence of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy in a patient who received belimumab (Benlysta) unknown for product used for unknown 
indication.
On an unknown date, the patient started Benlysta at an unknown dose and frequency. On an unknown date, an 
unknown time after starting Benlysta, the patient experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (serious 
criteria GSK medically significant). The action taken with Benlysta was unknown. On an unknown date, the 
outcome of the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was unknown. 
It was unknown if the reporter considered the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy to be related to Benlysta.
Additional Details: A GSK sales representative reported that a physician informed her that one of her patients on 
Benlysta developed PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy). No additional information was provided.
On 14 August 2015, US2015106466 was determined to be a duplicate of US201502787.  US201502787 will be the 
case of record and US2015106466 will be voided.  The following details were within US2015106466:
This case was reported by a physician via sales rep and described the occurrence of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy in a 48-year-old female patient who received belimumab (Benlysta) unknown for drug use for 
unknown indication. 
On an unknown date, the patient started Benlysta at an unknown dose and frequency. On an unknown date, an 
unknown time after starting Benlysta, the patient experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (serious 
criteria GSK medically significant) and neurological status deterioration. The action taken with Benlysta was 
unknown. On an unknown date, the outcome of the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and neurological 
status deterioration were unknown. 
It was unknown if the reporter considered the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and neurological status 
deterioration to be related to Benlysta.
Additional Details: The reporter states 48 year old female is suspected of PML while on Benlysta. The patient had 
last dose at the end of May. Reporter has noticed progressive neurological decline in the patient. The patient has 
had a MRI but is currently out of the country. HCP's are trying to get the patient back stateside for a more active 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 163 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
workup. However, the patient symptoms are being followed closely.
Follow up was received on 14 August 2015.  This is the case of a 46 year old female listed as a possible PML. This 
patient, well known to [the physician], had been on Benlysta for one year without problems. She took a trip to [a 
foreign country] and while there developed a severe headache and diplopia. She was given a prednisone 60 mg 
taper and and MRI [nuclear magnetic resonance imaging] was done. The MRI was consistent with white matter 
change in the frontal lobe [MRI abnormal and brain disorder not otherwise specified]. She was sent to see a 
neurologist and saw him/her 3 weeks after the symptoms onset. He/she diagnosed complex migraine. She has 
returned to the United States and was seen by the reporting physician yesterday [13 August 2015]. Her Benlysta 
was held throughout her symptoms. She wants to restart, but a repeat MRI will be done first. She is assymptomatic 
at this time. This is not likely PML.  No futher details were available at the time of this reporting.