Initial Information for this Clinical Study case, AER number 1010730, was received on 12 October 2011 from an 
rheumatologist and concerns a 77 Years old Female patient ((b) (6) ) who developed dementia while being enrolled 
in Study (b) (6)
(b) (6)
Concurrent conditions include avascular necrosis of left hip, hypothyroidism.  No medical history was reported.
Concomitant medications include Acetaminophen, Folate Sodium, Atorvastatin Calcium, Dimenhydrinate, Aspirin 
and Levothyroxine Sodium.  No past drugs were reported.
On an unspecified date, the patient started therapy with intravenous dose blinded Rituximab infusion once in 27 
months.  On an unspecified date, the patient started to experience progressive deterioration, she was no longer 
capable of doing daily living activities, had increasing confusion and was not aware or where is was or the date.  On
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 157 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(b) (6)  she was hospitalised for assessment.  The clinical history was suggestive of progressive cognitive 
impairment and query of underlying seizure activity explaining recent rapid decline.  On (b) (6)  the 
electroencephalogram electroencephalography results show bilateral slowing indicative of bilateral cerebral 
disturbance grade 3.  the patient was unable to carry on intelligent conversation, cannot say more than two or three 
word related to the topic at hand and then tends to mumble off in an incoherent fashion.  She was unable to state 
the date or current location.  The computerized tomography scan of head showed atrophy and old small vessel 
ischemic Cerebrovascular changes and leukoariosis was noted.  She was diagnosed for dementia leading to 
persistent significant disability.
The event of dementia was persisting.  Therapy with dose blinded rituximab was altered in response to dementia 
however therapy ongoing status of dose blinded Rituximab was unknown.
The rheumatologist assessed dementia as unrelated to dose blinded Rituximab but related to pre existing 
underlying disease: dementia.
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 10/Feb/2012.
On an unspecified date, the patient started therapy with blinded intravenous DOSE BLINDED RITUXIMAB infusion 
once in 24 months. (Previously reported as once in 27 months) the patient developed SUSPECTED 
PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY (Previously reported as Dementia). On (b) (6)
the event became serious which resulted in prolonged in patient hospitalisation. 
The event of SUSPECTED PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY was persisting.  Therapy 
with DOSE BLINDED RITUXIMAB was altered in response to the event.
The rheumatologist assessed the SUSPECTED PROGRESSIVE IFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY as 
persistent or significant disability/incapacity.
The rheumatologist assessed SUSPECTED PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY as 
unrelated to DOSE BLINDED RITUXIMAB but related to pre existing underlying disease- Dementia.
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received 14 February 2012
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 158 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The JCV test on Spinal fluid was not done. The patient's health was spontaneously improved without specific PML 
treatment. The patient stopped taking her medications for Hypothyroidism (memory loss  and disorientation). The 
thyroid supplements were re-started when the patient moved into elderly home. The patient had some memory 
problems.  Hypothyroidism was stabilized with medications. The physician confirmed that hypothyroidism could be 
a 2nd factor to her dementia symptoms. The patient was improving. 
The physician confirmed that Suspected PML that was spontaneously improving because the patient did not 
receive dose blinded Rituximab (since 25-Aug-2010).
Additional information was received on 23 February 2012.
The patient was transitioned from the (b) (6)  Rituximab study which she had began in fall of 
2006.  On 9 December 2010, during transition her rheumatoid arthritis was well in controlled with minimal synovitis 
left 5th  metacar- pophalangeal (MCP), normal acute phase reactants and that she had no side effects from dose 
blinded Rituximab, which at that point was to be given on a PRN basis over the next few years based on flares.  On 
14 December 2010, she was enrolled.  On 11 April 2011 she had her dose blinded Rituximab infusion at a dose of 
1000 mg.  On 22 April 2011, she had her 18th dose blinded Rituximab infusion at a dose of 1000 mg.  Her mental
status was usual at that time  On an unspecified date, patient underwent MRI that showed, there were diffuse white 
matter changes and although the radiologist felt there was possibly cerebral vascular I continued to be concerned 
that was compatible with PML.  It was reported that patient had started to improve has regained orientation, has 
been conversing much better and her family feels she is recovering.
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 07 March 2012.
The rheumatologist assessed suspected progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as related to dose blinded 
rituximab, pre existing underlying disease- hypertension and other treatment (you already have medicines) 
(previously reported as suspected progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as unrelated to dose blinded 
rituximab but related to pre existing underlying disease- Dementia).
No further information was available.
Additional information was received on 23/Jul/2012.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 159 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On (b) (6)  the patient was diagnosed with the event SUSPECTED PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL 
LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY.
No further information was provided.
On 06/Sep/2013, spontaneous case AER 1149824 was confirmed as a duplicate of this study case and the 
following information was added to the case:  On 23/Feb/2012, a report was recieved from a physician via a Roche 
Cananda sales representative. It was reported that the patient was significantly improving at the time.
No further information was provided.
The product code was broken at the end of the study on 20/Jul/2015. Rituximab was administered at a dose of 
1000 mg in the first and second course of study.