Medically Significant
Autonomous Community: Canarias
A neurologist spontaneously reported that a female patient (approximate age: 26-28 years), previously on
AVONEX (dosing dates and dosing regimen unknown), dosing dates not provided), was being evaluated for 
suspicion of PML. Indication for AVONEX was multiple sclerosis (MS), diagnosed on an unreported date. No 
medical history or concomitant medications were reported. The patient was taking AVONEX for 2-3 months, 
stopped treatment due to pregnancy, and resumed AVONEX after delivery. On an unknown date, the patient 
discontinued AVONEX and started on Copaxone (glatiramer acetate). At the time of this report, the patient had 
been on treatment with Copaxone for 3 months. On an unknown date, the patient presented with two relevant MS 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 175 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
relapses with increase of neurological lesions seen on MRI (date unknown) leading to low suspicion of PML. The 
patient did not present with any clinical symptoms of PML and, at the time of this report, she was fully recovered 
from the MS relapses. However, the patient was admitted to the hospital at the time of this report. Since the most 
recent MRI (date unknown) which was performed after the patient fully recovered from the relapses, did not show 
any progression of the lesion, the neurologist assessed this case to be low suspicion for PML. Testing performed at
a local laboratory (test date unknown) included a PCR to detect presence of JC virus; results were negative. On an 
unknown date, a CSF extraction was performed (STRATIFY TEST, to be clarified) and samples were sent to 
(b) (6) . Results are pending. The outcome of the event, suspicion of PML, was reported as not yet recovered. The 
neurologist did not provide a causality assessment between AVONEX and the event of suspicion of PML. AVONEX
therapy was discontinued on an unknown date.
Update 15 Jul 2015: Additional information was provided by the neurologist including medical records. The 
neurologist stated that the patient was a 29-year-old female, left-handed. Medical history includes the following: 
penicillin allergy, common migraines since childhood. On 01 Aug 2012, flare-up of the optic tracts: Right optic 
neuritis with altered VEPs in the right eye. On (b) (6)  medullary flare-up: admitted to Neurology, received 
treatment with MP for five days, diagnosed with RRMS based on the 2010 McDonald criteria. Started AVONEX 
treatment on 18 Jan 2013, experiencing systemic adverse effects (fever, vomiting, headaches, myalgia) with 
general discomfort on the following day and fatigue. (see MFN 2015BI101005) AVONEX was discontinued in Mar 
2013 due to pregnancy. On 02 Feb 2014: Truncal flare-up and vertigo requiring treatment with methylprednisolone 
1 g IV for three days. The use of DMDs was considered but the patient preferred not to start them. AVONEX 
treatment resumed in Jun 2014. On  07 Jul 2014, medullary flare-up with sensory problems requiring treatment with
methylprednisolone 1 g IV for five days. Stopped AVONEX treatment in Aug 2014 due to adverse effects 
(headaches and local pain), see MFN 2015BI100985). Lost to outpatient follow-up (had an appointment in Sep but 
did not attend). On 07 Dec 2014, multifocal truncal and medullary flare-up requiring treatment with 
methylprednisolone 1 g IV for three days. On 06 Mar 2015, truncal outbreak with symptoms of vertigo,  everything 
was spinning  and feeling of paresthesias in the hands; evaluated by Emergency, requiring treatment with 
methylprednisolone 1 g IV for three days. Started Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) treatment on 11 Mar 2015, well 
tolerated.Full recovery from last flare-up on 17 Jun 2015. PE: Higher functions conserved. Language normal. 
PERLA. Eye fundus with normal papilla. No deficits in campimetry. EOMs not limited. Mild exhaustible bilateral 
horizontal nystagmus on extreme gaze. Centred fascia. Strength conserved 5/5 overall. Universal hyperreflexia 
(biceps, triceps, patellae and ankles) with increased reflexive area. No clonus. Babinski s sign negative 
bilaterally.Hoffman - bilateral. No tactile or vibratory sensory problems. No dysmetria. Normal gait. EDSS: 1 (2015; 
exact date unknown). 
Brain MRI on 18 May 2015: Sagittal, axial and coronal projections. T1, T2 and proton density, Flair and diffusion + 
T1 with IV contrast. Compared with the previous study of 13/11/2012. Cerebral and cerebellar parenchyma with 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 176 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
adequate grey matter/white matter differentiation, with multiple signal abnormality foci in both subcortical 
hemispheres of the brain and in the confluent deep white matter, which have increased significantly with respect to 
the previous available study from 2012. Frontal and occipital periventricular leukoaraiosis were also observed. In 
this current study, more significant involvement of the left surface of the genu of the corpus callosum was observed,
with persistent affectation of the cerebral peduncles, the protuberance and, minimally, the cerebellum. No foci 
showed restriction in the diffusion sequence, nor enhancement after contrast was administered. These findings 
suggest that the foci are chronic, with no findings suggesting an acute pathology. The morphology and signal 
intensity of the ventricular system are within normal ranges, appearing symmetrical. There were no other significant
findings in the rest of the examination. The findings described could suggest two possibilities: significant 
deterioration of the MS or, if the patient was taking medication (monoclonal antibodies), consider PML. It was 
decided to admit the patient for study without delay. Lab tests (2015) revealed the following: Hb 13.9 g/dL. RBCs 
4.57 uL. Hct 41.6%. Leuc 5.40 uL. Platelets 217 uL. ESR 5 mm/h. Glucose 94 mg/dL. Creatinine 0.66 mg/dL. Total 
proteins 7.6 g/dL. Total cholesterol 150 mg/dL. HDL Cholesterol 56.7 mg/dL. Na 137 mM/L. K 4.3 mM/L. GPT 10.2 
U/L. GOT 15 U/L. Gamma GT 9.3 U/L. Alkaline phosphatase 62 U/L. LDH 152.5 U/L. CPK 35 U/L. Autoimmunity 
and Anti-NMO IgG antibodies in serum: pending. Hepatitis B, C, HIV, Cytomegalovirus IgG and IgM negative. 
Varicella-Zoster Virus IgG: Positive. Epstein Barr Virus IgG and IgM and Borrelia burgdorferi IgG and IgM: Pending 
results. Cerebrospinal fluid: Glucose 61.0 mg/dL, Proteins 57.0 mg/dL, CSF cells 5 leucocytes/mm3. 
Immunoglobulin G in serum 767 mg/dL. Albumin in serum by nephelometry 4690 mg/dL. Immunoglobulin G in CSF 
4.8 mg/dL. Albumin in CSF by nephelometry 43.6 mg/dL. Formation kinetics. IgG 5.3. Immunoglobulin index 0.7. 
Oligoclonal bands observed. JC virus (PCR) CSF (Limit of detection = 10 copies/mL): PCR Not detected.
Stratify JCV in serum: positive.
Brain MRI with/without contrast (30 Jun 2015   02 Jul 2015): no changes from previous study. Pending final report. 
Neuropsychological study: Mild attenuation of working memory within a context of cognitive normality appropriate to
the patient s age and cultural level. Primary diagnosis RRMS. Significant increase in studied lesion load. 
Treatment recommendations: Continue disease-modifying treatment with Copaxone. Neuropsychological study: 
The psychometric results indicate mild attenuation of working memory within a context of cognitive normality 
appropriate to the patient s age and cultural level. Primary diagnosis: RRMS, significant increase in studied lesion 
load. Treatment recommendations: Continue disease-modifying treatment with Copaxone. Other 
recommendations: Repeat NMR in one month.
Update 21 Jul 2015: Additional information provided by the neurologist. The neurologist stated that at this moment 
he cannot rule out the PML suspicion because the results of the tests performed are not clear yet. Concerning the 
last MRI performed, the neurologist is waiting for the assessment of a radiologist. As serum JCV test (Stratify) was 
positive and JCV CSF PCR was negative (no copies were detected), a new PCR to detect JCV in CSF will be 
performed. The neurologist sent the CSF sample to an external lab and the result is still pending. The physician 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 177 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
reported that despite he doesn't rule out the PML suspicion, the patient has a very low possibility to present it. The 
patient did not present neither hypogammaglobulinemia nor immunosuppression, so she has no risk factors for the 
PML. Furthermore, the patient was treated with Avonex and Copaxone for a short time because of her low 
adherence to both treatments.  The neurologist assessed the PML suspicion to be related to both Avonex and 
Copaxone. The reporting neurologist informed that his case has also been reported to Teva.
Update 27 Jul 2015: Additional information provided by the neurologist. The neurologist reported that the result of 
the PCR performed at a local laboratory was negative (no copies of JCV were detected). So the neurologist 
believes that this PML suspicion will probably be ruled out because of the two negative results in both PCR tests 
performed and because the patient is asymptomatic. At the moment, the neurologist doesn't rule out this PML 
suspicion because of the MRIs. However, he is still pending of an assessment of the last MRIs performed in order 
to establish a final diagnosis.
Update 04 Aug 2015: Additional information provided by the neurologist. The neurologist reported that the patient is
asymptomatic. Two PCR to detect JCV in CSF were performed (dates not reported) in 2 different local labs 
(Hospital Insular de Gran Canaria and Majadahonda), and both results were negative, no copies were detected in 
both samples. At the end of August or start of September, a new MRI will be performed. Based on the no 
symptomatology presented by the patient and on the results of PCR, the neurologist believes that this is not a PML.
Update 06 Aug 2015: Biogen considers this case ruled out for PML based on negative CSF,  lack of MRI evidence, 
and MD rule out. The case is no longer valid since the events occurred off product ( >2 weeks after last AVONEX 
injection).