Information was received on 16-Jul-2015. This is a case from an authority, National Pharmacovigilance Network 
(Italy, reference no. 318328) reported by a physician referring to a 77 year-old female patient who experienced NCI 
CTCAE (National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) grade 5 progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy, aphasia, and asthenia during treatment for chronic lymphatic leukaemia with 
bendamustine hydrochloride (Teva product cannot be ruled out). The patient was enrolled in clinical trial NOXXON 
in Dec-2012 and treated with the investigational medicinal product Nox-A12 (obinutuzumab) in combination with 
rituximab and bendamustine. In Mar-2014 she was enrolled in (b) (6)
(b) (6)
Other suspect drugs used were rituximab (non Teva) intravenous, 500 mg/m2 body surface, every 28 days cyclic 
for chronic lymphatic leukaemia starting from 03-Jan-2013 with last dose administered on 23-May-2013, and 
obinutuzumab (non Teva) intravenous, 300 mg every 28 days cyclic for chronic lymphatic leukaemia in an 
immunocompromised patient starting from 03-Jan-2013 with last dose administered on 21-May-2013, and 
intravenous alone every 28 days, cyclic from Mar-2014 to Aug-2014.
Current conditions included JC virus nephropathy, immunocompromised, arterial hypertension, chronic gastritis, 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and right arm neuropathy; historical conditions included herpes zoster 
and recurrent pneumonia; historical drugs included cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. She was a non-smoker. 
Concomitant medications included hydrochlorothiazide, valsartan, felodipine, omeprazole, sulfamethoxazole, 
trimethoprim, levofloxacin, itraconazole, valaciclovir, chlorphenamine maleate, allopurinol, paracetamol, ranitidine, 
methylprednisolone, and lenograstim. 
The patient received bendamustine hydrochloride for chronic lymphatic leukaemia according to the following 
dosage regimen: 03-Jan-2013 - 23-May-2013: intravenous 70 mg/m2 body surface, every 28 days cyclic.
On 05-Mar-2014, the patient developed aphasia and asthenia. The patient experienced loss of hyposthenia on her 
right upper limb. From Mar-2014 to Jun-2014, the patient developed a progressive loss of strength in all limbs. On 
23-Jul-2014, the patient could not hold a pen in her hand and from Aug-2014 she developed expressive aphasia, a 
worsening neuropathy. The patient was treated with an unspecified steroid therapy that was discontinued due to 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 186 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
patient's clinical worsening. 
On 14-Aug-2014, the patient was diagnosed with JC virus infection. On an unknown date, after JC virus infection 
diagnosis, the patient developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Patient's progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy worsened (grade 5). On (b) (6)  the patient died due to aphasia, asthenia and 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy worsened. Autopsy was not performed. The death certificate was not 
provided.
Laboratory date included:
- Unspecified date: Liquor test was performed that resulted positive for JC virus.
- 14-Aug-2014: Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging brain was performed that showed an ischaemic hypodensity 
in the rolandic area.
The outcome of the events was reported as fatal.
Action taken with bendamustine hydrochloride, obinutuzumab, and rituximab were not applicable (also reported as 
action taken with bendamustine and obinutuzumab was discontinued without symptoms improving and rituximab 
was ongoing at the time of death).
The physician assessed the following events with respect to bendamustine hydrochloride:
 - Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (seriousness: Death, Hospitalization, Disability, Medically significant; 
causality: Not Assessed)
 - Aphasia (seriousness: Death; causality: Possible)
 - Asthenia (seriousness: Death; causality: Possible)
The reporter assessed the event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy very significant but not related to 
obinutuzumab administration, rather the disease was considered related to rituximab previously administered.
Follow-up information was received on 29-Jul-2015 from the Italian Health Authority and forwarded to Astellas on 
the same day. New or updated information included: updated therapy suspect drug from (NOX A12 to 
obinutuzumab), as obinutuzumab was an active ingredient in (NOX A12), also confirmation was provided that the 
report (2015-0207-IT) concerns Bendamustine hydrochloride and not Betmiga mentioned in the subject, which was 
a typo.
Follow-up information was received on 31-Jul-2015 by National Pharmacovigilance Network from a physician and 
received at Astellas on 03-Aug-2015. New or updated information included: Additional medical history, additional 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 187 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
event (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy worsened (grade 5)), autopsy information, and causal 
assessment.
Follow-up information was received on 31-Jul-2015 by National Pharmacovigilance Network from Roche with data 
collected from the clinician and received at Astellas on 04-Aug-2015. New or updated information included: study 
information, medical history, past and concomitant drugs, suspect drugs frequency (every 28 days), obinutuzumab 
additional therapy details, event onset date, treatment received and additional serious criteria for progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy, narrative and reporter comment was updated with events description.
Follow-up information was received on 18-Dec-2015 from Centro Regionale Regione Liguria (Italian PV Network). 
New or updated information included: reporter causality of the events aphasia and asthenia.
Follow-up information was received on 21-Dec-2015 from Centro Regionale Regione Liguria (Italian PV Network). 
New or updated information included: Relevant test results, current condition and description for event of 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
Follow-up information was received on 12-Jan-2016 from local PV officer. New or updated information included: It 
was confirmed the patient developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy after JC virus infection diagnosis 
which was after bendamustine hydrochloride therapy. Narrative was updated.
Senders comment:
The Astellas Medical Reviewer assessed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as serious due to death, 
hospitalization, disability, medical significance; aphasia and asthenia as serious due to death. The causality for the 
events is considered not related; John Cunningham (JC) virus infection may provide an alternative explanation for 
the events. Event Use of bendamustine at a dose of 70mg/m2 (Prescribed underdose) was assessed non-serious 
and the causal relationship to Bendamustine hydrochloride not related and attributable to a human action