Case number# PHEH2014US023407, is an initial report received from a healthcare professional via patient 
oriented program (Gilenya Go Program, POP ID: POP00002581) on 19 Nov 2014, with a follow up report received 
from a physician on 12 Jan 2015 via patient oriented program (Gilenya Go Program, POP ID: POP00002581), with 
a follow up report received from a consumer on 13 Jul 2015 via patient oriented program (Gilenya Go Program, 
POP ID: POP00002581).
This report refers to an adult female patient.
The patient underwent adenoidectomy, caesarian section, shoulder surgery and tonsillectomy. The patient's 
concurrent conditions included drug hypersensitivity (allergy to penicillin and sulfa drugs), abnormal gait, anxiety, 
chronic migraine, cognitive disorder/mild cognitive impairment, depression, fatigue, hearing loss, high risk 
medication use, sleep disturbances, spasms, tinnitus, tremor, urinary tract infection, vitamin B12 deficiency and 
vitamin D deficiency. Past medications included Tecfidera (dimethyl fumarate) for increased UTI (urinary tract 
infection) and herpes outbreaks (herpes zoster), Betaseron (albumin human glucose, interferon beta) for severe 
FLS (influenza like illness) and Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) for breakthrough disease related to non adherence 
needle phobia. 
This polymedicated patient received Gilenya (fingolimod) capsule for the treatment of multiple sclerosis from an 
unknown date at a dose of 0.5 mg, QD (oral). 
On an unknown date, the patient developed fatigue, anxiety, constipation, "loss of balance" (balance disorder), 
weakness (asthenia), dizziness, headache, depression, "muscle tone abnormal/motor tone left leg hypertonic" 
(balance disorder) and reflexes abnormal. Patient also developed "JCV AB positive" (JC virus test positive) and no 
previous chemotherapy. Patient MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) brain was stable in Aug 2012 and ordered MRI 
brain SAAD images only. She was uncomfortable with risk of PML and interested in alternative agents. Patient was 
previously tired and failed and experienced vitamin D deficiency. She underwent CBC (complete blood count) with 
differential platelet status, CMP, TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone), varicella zoster antibody IGG/IGM. Patient will 
get more infusion and then transition back to Gilenya. The physician ordered laboratory data and EKG 
(electrocardiogram) in the office. Patient will go to her ophthalmologist and get an eye exam and have the results 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 192 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
faxed to me. The patient restarted Gilenya for multiple sclerosis on 08 Jan 2015 at a dose of 0.5 mg QD (oral). On 
an unknown date, the patient developed shortness of breath (dyspnoea). The patient reports no longer taking 
Gilenya. Therapy with Gilenya was discontinued approximately 3-4 months ago. Dechallenge was positive and 
rechallenge was unknown. Outcome of the event dyspnea was reported as resolved and for other events it was 
reported as unknown. 
Seriousness and causality of the events were not reported.
Follow up report received from a physician on 12 Jan 2015 via patient oriented program (Gilenya Go Program, POP
ID: POP00002581): Updated action taken with Gilenya (as discontinued).
Follow up report received from a consumer on 13 Jul 2015 via patient oriented program (Gilenya Go Program, POP
ID: POP00002581): Updated therapy details of Gilenya, added event shortness of breath and updated information 
related to newly added event.