This case was reported by a physician via sales rep and described the occurrence of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy in a male patient who received dolutegravir (Tivicay) tablet for hiv infection. 
Co-suspect products included abacavir sulphate, lamivudine (Epzicom) tablet for hiv infection. 
The patient's past medical history included pneumonia bacterial. Concurrent medical conditions included hiv 
infection, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, cerebellar ataxia, abasia, tongue coated, nystagmus and 
dysarthria. Concomitant products included prednisolone (Predonine). 
In August 2014, the patient started Tivicay (oral) 1 dosage form(s) once daily (1 dosage form(s) daily) and Epzicom 
(oral) 1 dosage form(s) once daily (1 dosage form(s) daily). In 2014, Several months after starting Tivicay and 
Epzicom, the patient experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (serious criteria death and GSK 
medically significant), cerebellar ataxia and depressed level of consciousness (serious criteria GSK medically 
significant). Tivicay was discontinued (Dechallenge was negative). Epzicom was discontinued (Dechallenge was 
negative). In 2014, the outcome of the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was fatal. On an unknown date, 
the outcome of the cerebellar ataxia and depressed level of consciousness were unknown. The patient died in 
2014. The reported cause of death was progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. 
The reporter considered the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, cerebellar ataxia and depressed level of 
consciousness to be unrelated to Tivicay and Epzicom.
(b) (6)
The patient was urgently transferred to the hospital.
Chief complaints: Difficulty in speaking, difficulty in eating, unsteadiness in walking
The patient was clinically diagnosed with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML).
(b) (6)  On the second hospital day, the patient started to receive Tivicay (dolutegravir sodium), Epzicom 
(lamivudine/abacavir sulfate), and Predonine (prednisolone).
On an unknown date in 2014:
The symptoms of cerebellar ataxia gradually deteriorated.
The dose of Predonine was tapered by 5 mg per week. When the dose of Predonine was reduced to 35 mg/day, 
the symptoms acutely deteriorated and the patient had depressed level of consciousness. All treatments were 
discontinued on the 56th hospital day.
On the 62nd hospital day, the patient died.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 220 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information