This case, manufacturer control number 2015-0165720, is a spontaneous report from a literature article titled 
"Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome in a patient with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy" 
referring to a 52 year old male patient (race unspecified). The author's reported the following events for this case: 
JC virus-associated IRIS presenting as progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
Medical history included:
Current conditions: HIV infection (diagnosed three months earlier) and some baseline cognitive impairment (not 
otherwise specified).
Historical condition: pneumonia.
Historical drug(s): none reported.
On an unspecified date, the patient received tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and emtricitabine (dose details not 
specified) for the treatment of HIV infection.
Concomitant medications included ritonavir-boosted darunavir. 
The patient commenced antiretroviral therapy two months prior to his presentation to his primary care clinic with 
difficulty with balance and walking/ataxia, symptoms of mental cloudiness and blurry vision. Upon further 
questioning, the patient mentioned having mild cognitive difficulties for the past five months.
Results of a neurological examination were remarkable for left homonymous hemianopsia.
A CT of the brain revealed a hypodense lesion lateral to the anterior aspect of the right-sided lenticular nucleus 
associated with oedema and midline shift. A MRI of the brain contrast revealed nodular perivascular space 
enhancement throughout the supratentorium with greater involvement in the right hemisphere. There was 
surrounding vasogenic oedema, mass effect and a 3 mm leftward midline shift. 
A lumbar puncture revealed non-inflammatory cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with a negative gram stain and culture. The
CSF polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was positive for JC virus (6649 copies/mL). Flow cytometry performed on 
the fluid revealed increased CD8+ T cells with complete absence on the CD4 cells.
As the patient developed worsening symptoms in the setting of initiation of antiretroviral therapy with immune 
recovery, a diagnosis of JC virus-associated immune reconstitution syndrome (IRIS) presenting as progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy was made.
Treatment medications included oral maraviroc 150 mg twice daily. 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 224 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Relevant laboratory/diagnostic tests included:
Dates unspecified: responded well to antiretroviral regimen with an improvement in his CD4 count from 67 cells/uL 
to 153 cells/uL. 
Dates unspecified: responded well to antiretroviral regimen with suppression of his viral load from 1530 copies/mL 
to 71 copies/mL.
Date unspecified: computerized tomogram of the brain: hypodense lesion lateral to the anterior aspect of the right-
sided lenticular nucleus associated with oedema and midline shift.
Date unspecified: magnetic resonance imaging of the brain with contrast: nodular perivascular space enhancement
throughout the supratentorium with greater involvement in the right hemisphere. There was surrounding vasogenic 
oedema, mass effect and a 3 mm leftward midline shift.
Date unspecified: lumbar puncture: non-inflammatory cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), positive for JC virus.
Date unspecified: CSF gram stain: negative.
Date unspecified: CSF culture: negative.
Date unspecified: CSF polymerase chain reaction (PCR): positive for JC virus (6649 copies/mL). 
Date unspecified: CSF was negative for cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus (HSV) 1, HSV-2, varicella-zoster 
virus, Epstein-Barr virus, Cryptococcus and toxoplasma.
Date unspecified: Flow cytometry revealed increased CD8+ T cells with complete absence on the CD4 cells. 
Date unspecified: Neurological examination - left homonymous hemianopsia.
Date unspecified: Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging brain after two months - improvement in the lesion.
Date unspecified: Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging brain at one year - complete resolution.
Action taken with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, emtricitabine, and ritonavir-boosted darunavir was unknown.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 225 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Two months after presentation, the patient reported complete resolution of his neurological symptoms. Maraviroc 
was continued for one year when his MRI had shown complete resolution of the previously observed lesions.
The author's concluded that although the patient had some baseline cognitive impairment, the neurological deficits 
significantly worsened after the initiation of HAART. This is consistent with the unmasking form of IRIS to PML, 
where subtle clinical symptoms of PML worsened after initiation of HAART and with laboratory evidence of 
improved immune status. In their literature review, this was the first case of an HIV-positive patient successfully 
treated for PMS IRIS with maraviroc. This case may have clinical implications as maraviroc can be used to 
augment the current HIV regimen and, at the same time, improve the outcome of PML IRIS.
The author's seriousness assessment for JC virus-associated IRIS presenting as progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy was not reported; the outcome of the event was resolved.
The initial receipt date is 28 July 2015.