This authority report was received by Astellas license partner, Mundipharma, from an other health professional via 
French health authority (Regional Pharmacovigilance Centre, Authority No. GR20150619) on 31-Jul-2015, and 
received at Astellas from Mundipharma on 03-Aug-2015, referring to a 75 years-old elderly female patient who 
experienced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) during Levact (bendamustine hydrochloride) (Teva 
product cannot be ruled out) treatment.
Other suspect drugs used were Mabthera (rituximab) (non Teva) via unknown route at unknown dose and 
frequency for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), 6th line of treatment for CLL starting from Jan-2013 and 
Endoxan (cyclophosphamide) (non Teva) via unknown route at unknown dose and frequency for CLL starting from 
Jan-2013 and chloraminophene (non Teva) via unknown route at unknown dose and frequency for 2nd and 3rd line
treatment for CLL.
Underlying disease included CLL; current condition included breast cancer, fibrillation atrial, hypertension arterial, 
embolism pulmonary, and deep vein thrombosis (DVT); and procedures included thyroidectomy, mastectomy, and 
radiotherapy.
Concomitant medications included valaciclovir hydrochloride, fluindione, flecainide acetate, colecalciferol, 
levothyroxine sodium, amlodipine besilate, and fludarabine. 
The patient received bendamustine hydrochloride for 6th line of treatment for CLL according to the following 
dosage regimens: 2012 - 2013: via intravenous route, unknown dose and frequency; Jan-2014 - Jan-2015: via 
intravenous route, unknown dose and frequency.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 229 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On an unknown date in (b) (6)  the patient developed PML with appearance of neurological signs type of 
aphasia, disorders of behavior and amnesic disorders necessitating hospitalization.
On an unknown date: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): discovery of leucopathy.
On 23-Apr-2015: examination of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), presence of John Cunningham (JC) polyomavirus 
genome at high positivity allowing the diagnosis of PML; metabolic leucopathy: negative metabolic balance; 
meningoencephalitis: negative infectious balance of CSF; cerebral lymphoma: negative balance. 
The action taken to bendamustine hydrochloride, rituximab and chlorambucil treatments due to the event was 
unknown. However, last dose of bendamustine and rituximab treatment was provided as on an unknown date in 
Jan-2015. The action taken to cyclophosphamide was not applicable. The last dose of cyclophosphamide was 
provided on an unknown date in Dec-2013.
The outcome of PML was reported as not recovered/not resolved.  It was reported that patient was back at home 
on 05-May-2015.
The French imputability was provided as chronology 2, semiology 2 and imputability 2 (C2S2I2).
The other health professional assessed the following event with respect to bendamustine hydrochloride, rituximab, 
cyclophosphamide and chlorambucil: 
 - PML (seriousness: Life Threatening, Hospitalization; causality: Possible (reported as more or less suspects)
The Astellas Medical Reviewer assessed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as serious due to 
hospitalization, threat to life and the causal relationship to bendamustine hydrochloride as possible due to the 
plausible temporal relationship and myelosuppressive profile. However, JC polyoma virus is the most common 
cause of PML, and it was confirmed by CSF analysis in this patient, along with decreased immunity secondary to 
underlying CLL and breast carcinoma, concurrent use of rituximab and cyclophosphamide were strong confounders
for PML in this elderly patient.