AER 1618665 is a literature - spontaneous case, received on 05/Aug/2015 from a physician (nephrology) and  It 
concerns a 61 year old female patient who developed post-transplant diabetes, aspergillus fumigatus pneumonia, 
posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES), renal cell carcinoma, pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, 
JCV infection whilst being treated with mycophenolate mofetil, basiliximab, tacrolimus, prednisone and ciclosporin.
The patient with chronic kidney disease (CKD) stage 5-d secondary to probable chronic glomerulonephritis (kidney 
biopsy was inconclusive) who received a deceased donor kidney allograft 24 months before this admission. The 
induction immunosuppressive protocol was basiliximab, tacrolimus, prednisone and mycophenolate mofetil, and 
maintenance immunosuppression was tacrolimus prednisone and mycophenolate mofetil. After transplantation the 
patient developed early post-transplant diabetes and, at 21 months, she was diagnosed with Pneumocystis jirovecii 
pneumonia. Her basal creatinine level was 1.1 mg/dL. 
The patient was admitted with a 7-day history of fever, productive cough, anorexia, right hand altered mobility and 
sensitivity, as well as right hand tremor and high blood pressure. Auscultation of the lungs revealed right basal 
crackles and generalized wheezing. Cardiac auscultation and abdominal exam were unremarkable. Laboratory 
investigations revealed haemoglobin: 10 gm/dL, WBC: 15 000/mm3, neutrophils: 87%, urea: 140 mg/dL, creatinine:
4.3 mg/dL, RCP: 16 mg/dL. Urine, blood and sputum cultures were negative. Serum tacrolimus level was 20 ng/dL, 
1mg twice a day prescribed, with serum level of 5 ng/dL 15 days earlier. She was on: tacrolimus 1 mg twice a day, 
prednisone 7.5 mg/day, mycophenolate mofetil 250 mg twice a day, valganciclovir 450 mg/day, cotrimoxazol 960 
mg on alternate days, darbepoetin 20 mg on alternate weeks, furosemide 40 mg/day, carvedilol 25 mg/day, 
omeprazole 20 mg/day and alprazolam 0.25 mg/day. The patient was diagnosed with Aspergillus fumigatus 
pneumonia after being submitted to bronchofibroscopic examination and bronchoalveolar lavage culture. She was 
treated with voriconazole and respiratory physiotherapy, with clinical and analytical improvement. As previously 
noted, she also complained of altered sensation and mobility of the right hand. Electromyography and 
electroencephalogram were unremarkable, but head CT revealed focal areas of hypodensity in the subcortical 
frontal, pre-central and internal white matter, bilaterally. Further magnetic resonance (MRI) encephalocranial (EC) 
showed cortical hyperintense T2 lesions in the left rolandic and paramedian occipital white matter, and hypointense 
in T1, suggesting posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES). As this is sometimes associated with 
tacrolimus toxicity, alternative calcineurin inhibitor therapy was commenced with low dose cyclosporine. 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 243 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Cerebrospinal fluid, blood and urine were screened for BKV and JCV DNA, of which only the urinary sample was 
positive for JCV. Blood sample was also screened for EBV, CMV, herpes 1 and 2, but it was unremarkable. There 
was great improvement of the neurological symptoms and control MRI-EC performed about 3 weeks later showed 
significant improvement compared to prior injuries. Approximately a month later, a renal ultrasound scan showed a 
poorly defined cyst in the right native kidney. Further abdominal CT suggested a tumour, and the patient was 
submitted to right nephrectomy. Pathology revealed clear-cell renal cell carcinoma, Fuhrman grade 2, reaching the 
organ capsule, but with no invasion of vascular tissue. The systematic evaluation to metastasization was negative. 
After discharge, the patient has been regularly evaluated, maintaining a stable serum creatinine of 2.3 mg/ dL, with 
no symptoms associated, namely without neurological complaints. She was on: cyclosporine 25 mg twice a day, 
prednisone 5 mg/day, mycophenolate mofetil 250 mg twice a day, valganciclovir 450 mg/day, cotrimoxazol 960 mg 
on alternate days, darbepoetin 20 mg on alternate weeks, carvedilol 25 mg/day, omeprazole 20 mg/day and 
alprazolam 0.25 mg/day. The PRES was strongly suggested by our clinical findings, as well as the toxic serum 
levels of tacrolimus (even for a self-limited period of time) and brain lesions revealed by MRI. The fact that there 
was a significant clinical improvement following discontinuation of tacrolimus further supports this diagnosis.
The outcome of events post-transplant diabetes, aspergillus fumigatus pneumonia, renal cell carcinoma, 
pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia and JCV infection were not reported.
The authors reported that post-transplant diabetes, aspergillus fumigatus pneumonia, posterior reversible 
encephalopathy syndrome (PRES), renal cell carcinoma, pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, JCV infection were 
complications associated with immunosuppressive therapy (mycophenolate mofetil, basiliximab, tacrolimus, 
prednisone and ciclosporin).
The company assessed the events  post-transplant diabetes, renal cell carcinoma, pneumocystis jirovecii 
pneumonia as medically significant.
The need to perform follow up will be evaluated.
Melo M, Nascimento C, Guerra J, Goncalves J, Santana A
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome as a kidney transplant immunossuppressive therapy side effect. 
Port J Nephrol Hypert 2015;29 (2):154-157.