Case number# PHEH2015US015215, is an initial report received on 04 Aug 2015 from a consumer (patient) from a
patient oriented program, POP00002581 (Gilenya Go Program). This report refers to an adult male patient. 
The patient's historical condition included neck surgery in 1997. Current conditions included scar on one ear. 
Concomitant medication included 8 unspecified herbal drugs. The patient received Gilenya (fingolimod) capsule 0.5
mg (batch/lot number: F0008; expiration date: Jun 2016) for the treatment of multiple sclerosis from 04 Oct 2014 at 
a dose of 0.5 mg, QD (oral). 
The patient stated that Gilenya was not working (drug ineffective) and he was still on it. The patient would be sent to
a specialist. The patient stated that his next option would be Tysabri but he was JC positive (JC virus test positive). 
Also, there was a continuation of active growth and his GSS confirmed lesions (central nervous system lesion). The
patient reported that he had neck surgery and depending on the temperature it's always been painful (neck pain). 
MRI spine found more lesions (central nervous system lesion). The patient had continuous fatigue which was 
treated with Provigil and SSI's (refer case PHEH2014US021170 for electrocardiogram QT prolonged, fatigue and 
cough). Also, he had increase of discomfort. The patient's blood work, EKG and vision (20/20) were normal but he 
had weight loss to around 200 lbs (weight decreased). The patient had a scar on one ear but he could hear well. 
The patient's balance was getting worse (balance disorder) and he felt like floating in out of being more precise and
cognitive. He stated that today he was not in the movie. He was more real and was able to function little better. The 
heat always bothered the patient (temperature intolerance). He had a military designed vest that kept his 
temperature for 2 hours 1 core below normal. The patient informed that his HCP instructed to continue Gilenya until
he consults the specialist. Therapy with Gilenya was reported as ongoing at the time of this report. The outcome 
was reported as condition unchanged for neck pain; condition deteriorated for discomfort, balance disorder and 
central nervous system lesion and was not reported for other events.
The seriousness and causality of the events was not reported. Serious assessment of (central nervous system 
lesion) was upgraded based on information available in the source document.