A registered nurse reported that a male patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple Sclerosis from 2008 to 
2015 was hospitalized from an unknown date to an unknown date for PML (onset unknown). The patient was 
admitted to the hospital approximately 2 months ago due to functional decline. TYSABRI therapy was discontinued 
at that time; however, the patient had continued to decline for the next 4 to 6 weeks. Therapy was transitioned to 
TECFIDERA and further functional decline was observed.  Testing included imaging and a lumbar puncture that 
confirmed PML. Currently the patient is in palliative care and requires assisted aspiration (presumed inspiration). 
TECFIDERA has been discontinued. Further information will be provided via the PML DCT [data collection tool]. 
The event of PML is ongoing. The causality for the event of PML is unknown.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued 
approximately 2 months ago.
Update 07 Aug 2015:  Upon follow-up the registered nurse reported that the 41 year old male on TYSABRI since 
2009 at this infusion clinic.  During a scheduled infusion, the patient reported experiencing some vision symptoms. 
The TYSABRI infusion was withheld and the MRI did not reveal anything indicative of PML.  The patient was 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 236 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
switched to TECFIDERA.  After a few weeks, the patient experienced increased functional decline and was treated 
with steroids (NOS).  JCV CSF testing was performed on an unknown date and the results were positive for JCV.
Further MRI scans on unknown test dates indicated PML.  The patient was placed on mirtazapine.  The patient did 
not undergo plasma exchange.  On an unknown date the patient passed away.  Causality was assessed as likely 
related toTYSABRI.  No additional information was reported.
Update 18 Sep 2015: Upon follow-up the nurse reported that the information requested was not yet available. The 
nurse apologised for the delay. No further information reported at this time.