Initial Receipt Date = 07/Aug/2015. 
This serious spontaneous report received from an other health professional refers to a 48 year old, adult female 
patient on Enbrel. 
Medical history of the patient was not provided. No relevant concomitant medications were reported. 
The patient began Enbrel (dosage, frequency, and route of administration were not provided) on an unknown date. 
After an unspecified time-frame, the patient developed multiple sclerosis while on Enbrel SureClick. No treatment 
information was reported. The outcome of the event multiple sclerosis was unknown. At the time of this report, it 
was unknown if Enbrel therapy was still being administered. Additional information was not provided.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 239 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
For the event multiple sclerosis, as reported causality for Enbrel was not provided by the reporter.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RECEIVED ON 24/Aug/2015: This follow up information was received from the 
physician. The patient began Enbrel (dosage, frequency, and route of administration were not provided) on 
18/Nov/2013. After an unspecified time-frame, the patient developed multiple sclerosis, as previously reported. 
Additionally, the physician stated multiple sclerosis symptoms included electricity feelings shooting up and down 
spine. The patient saw the neurologist. In Nov/2014, Enbrel therapy was discontinued and the patient's multiple 
sclerosis symptoms improved.  No treatment information was reported. The outcome of the event multiple sclerosis
was reported as resolving. For the event multiple sclerosis, as reported causality for Enbrel was provided as related
by the physician.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RECEIVED ON 14/Sep/2015: This is a follow up report received from the physician. 
Concomitant medication included methotrexate. This serious spontaneous report refers to a 48 year old, adult 
Caucasian female patient on Enbrel. The patient's medical history included Rheumatoid arthritis. The patient began
50 mg weekly subcutaneous in 18/Nov/2013. On 11/Dec/2014, the patient developed lhemitte's sign. Additionally, 
the patient underwent MRI of brain that showed periventricular white matter hyper intensities and it was suggestive 
of multiple sclerosis (MS). The patient underwent CSF test by lumbar puncture method that showed Multiple 
sclerosis negative. The patient underwent JC virus antibody test that show positive result. In Dec/2014, Enbrel 
therapy was discontinued and her lhemitte's sign was improved. No treatment information was reported. The 
outcome of the event multiple sclerosis was reported as resolving. The outcome of the event JC virus test positive 
was unknown.  The physician commented that there was a reasonable possibility that the events multiple sclerosis 
would have been caused by Enbrel. The physician did not comment on relationship of the event of JC virus test 
positive to Enbrel. Additional information was not provided.