AER 1618240 is a spontaneous case, received on 04/Aug/2015 from a physician via france ANSM reference 
number: GR20150619 and concerns a female patient (age not reported) who developed progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy whilst being treated with rituximab (Mabthera), cyclophosphamide (Endoxan), bendamustine 
hydrochloride (Levact).
Medical history included breast cancer, thyroidectomy, atrial fibrillation, hypertension, pulmonary embolism and 
deep vein thrombosis. No past drugs and concurrent conditions were reported. Concomitant medications included 
chlorambucil and fludarabine.
On an unknown date in //2012, pateint started therapy fourth line of chemotherapy with bendamustine hydrochloride
(route, dose and frequency were not reported) for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. On an unknown date in //2013, 
she started therapy with rituximab for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (route, dose and frequency were not reported). 
On an unspecified date in /Jan/2013, she started cyclophosphamide (route, dose and frequency were not reported) 
for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. On an unspecified date in /Dec/2013, cyclophosphamide was stopped. On an 
unspecified date in /Jan/2014, she started therapy with bendamustine hydrochloride. In (b) (6)  occurrence of 
neurologic signs including aphasia, behavior disorders and mnesic disorders for which she was hospitalized. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was diagnosed on MRI. On an unknown date, she started treatment 
with, valaciclovir hydrochloride (Zelitrex) 500 mg, fluindione (Previscan (France)) 20 mg, flecainide acetate 
(Flecaine Lp) 100, levothyroxine sodium (Levothyrox) 150, amlodipine besilate (Amlor) 5 mg and vitamine D3. On 
an unknown date in (b) (6)  rituximab and bendamustine hydrochloride were stopped. On (b) (6)  in 
cerebro-spinal fluid, JC polyomavirus genome was highly positive, leading to diagnosis of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. Differential diagnosis: - metabolic leucopathy: negative metabolic workup. - meningo-
encephalitis: negative infectious workup on cerebrospinal fluid. - cerebral lymphoma: negative workup. On 
(b) (6)  she was discharged to home.
At the time of this report, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was persisting. 
The reporter assessed the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as related to rituximab, cyclophosphamide 
and bendamustine hydrochloride. 
No further information was provided.
The french imputability for rituximab concerning the event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was 
chronology 2, semiology 2 and imputability 2.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 252 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML