Based on this follow up information received on 01-Apr-2014, this case initially non-serious was upgraded to 
serious due to the serious event of multiple sclerosis relapse. 
Initial information reported by a consumer to a nurse in the (b) (6)  on 19-Sep-2013:
Study ID: (b) (6)  and Patient ID: (b) (6)
This case concerns a 34 year old female patient who had experienced multiple sclerosis relapse after few months, 
tested positive for the JC virus, severe hair thinning, liver enzymes have doubled, progression of some lesions 
based on MRI scan, she took teriflunomide sporadically during that time period/ missed 05 days of therapy/ 
occasionally forgot to take her teriflunomide (drug dose omission) and had complained that she had difficulty with 
her memory (memory impaired), an unknown duration after starting treatment with teriflunomide.
Past drugs included were interferon beta-1A (Rebif) and interferon beta-1A (Avonex) for multiple sclerosis. Medical 
history, Concurrent condition and concomitant drugs were unknown. 
On 15-Apr-2013, the patient received oral teriflunomide coated tablet at a dosage of 14 mg daily (Lot# 2G95ASA 
and expiration date 30-Sep-2014) for multiple sclerosis. 
Since starting between the ends of May 2013 to the beginning of June 2013, she started experiencing severe hair 
thinning and since September 2013 liver enzymes have doubled. She stopped taking teriflunomide sometime 
during the first week of September 2013 and then she restarted sometime during the second week of September 
2013. Lab test includes blood work in September 2013. On an unspecified date (unknown time frame between the 
first dose and the onset), the patient has had a relapse. It started towards the end of (b) (6)  to the first of 
(b) (6)  She ended up going in pt. She was hospitalized for IV steroid infusions. She developed a migraine and
then lost vision to her left eye, lost hearing to right ear. It was mentioned that, she took teriflunomide sporadically 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 247 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
during that time period/ missed 05 days of therapy with teriflunomide due to issues with the shipping of her 
exception dose/and she occasionally forgot to take her teriflunomide (drug dose omission) (latency: unknown a 
onset date: 2014). On an unknown date, patient restarted taking teriflunomide. Patient's neurologist (possibly Nov-
2014) was concerned regarding progression of some lesions based on MRI scan. He was surprised she was doing 
as well as she was based upon the lesions. MD had tested patient for JC Virus to see if she could try Tysabri and 
on an unknown date she tested positive for the JC Virus. He had not made any changes at that time.  She had 
another follow up appointment with MD in about 1 month. Patient did not have any concerns or side effects to report
regarding teriflunomide.
Upon follow up, it was reported that, unspecified duration after and on an unknown date, the patient had 
complained that she had difficulty with her memory (memory impaired). 
Therapy with teriflunomide was ongoing.
Action taken with teriflunomide was unknown.
Corrective treatment: IV steroid infusions.
Outcome: not recovered for hair thinning and unknown for all other events. 
Reporter causality: not associated for JC virus positive and MRI abnormal and not reported for rest.
Company causality: not associated for multiple sclerosis, memory impaired; associated for rest
Seriousness criteria: multiple sclerosis relapse had led to prolonged hospitalization and tested positive for the JC 
virus was assessed as an important medical event.
Additional information received on 01-Apr-2014:
Case upgraded to serious
Therapy start date amended from "April 2013" to "15-Apr-2013"
New event added: multiple sclerosis relapse ( with symptoms of migraine, vision loss, hearing loss) and  drug dose 
omission
Action taken amended from "discontinued" to "unknown". 
No further information reported.
Additional information received on 21-Apr-2014:
Omission of 5 doses teriflunomide.
Therapy closed
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 248 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
No further information reported. 
Additional information was received on 27-Mar-2015 from consumer:
New event of JC virus test positive and MRI abnormal was added. Teriflunomide therapy was kept on-going. 
Laboratory test was added. interferon beta-1A (Rebif) and interferon beta-1A (Avonex) was added as past drugs. 
Text was modified as per the information received.
Additional information was received on 04-Aug-2015.
Steroids was deleted as a corrective treatment since it was coded to a therapeutic class of drugs; new event added:
difficulty with her memory (memory impaired); event verbatim updated: she took teriflunomide sporadically during 
that time period/ missed 05 days of therapy/ occasionally forgot to take her teriflunomide (drug dose omission); 
narrative amended; seriousness criteria added for JC virus test positive.