Reference number 2015AP008178 is a spontaneous report received on 29-Jan-2015 from a lawyer, pertaining to a 
female patient of an unknown age, who experienced a lack of efficacy, hypertension and nervousness and severe 
nausea whilst on Paxil (paroxetine hydrochloride).
This case is linked to Reference Number 2015AP008002 because this is the mother of the child described in the 
other case.
The patient had a medical history of depression, anxiety, penicillin allergy, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
allergy, caesarean section and toxemia. She was pregnant at the time of the events (delivered a male neonate on 
(b) (6)
 at 36 and half weeks via caesarean section weighing six pounds and one ounce). Family history was 
positive for diabetes, thyroid and heart disease. Concomitant medication included prenatal vitamins, iron, meclizine 
12.5mg and Covera (verapamil hydrochloride) for unknown indications. 
On 23-Aug-2000, the patients medications included Paxil (paroxetine hydrochloride), 20mg daily (route of 
administration unknown), for the treatment of depression and anxiety. On an unknown date, the patient was 
diagnosed with hypertension in pregnancy (HYPERTENSION). Paxil was decreased to 10mg. On 12-Mar-2001, the
patient reported being very nervous (NERVOUS) and depressed (DRUG INEFFECTIVE) since decreasing the dose
of Paxil. Paxil was increased to 20mg on an unknown date. On (b) (6) , the patient was hospitalized due to 
elevations of blood pressure and diastolics in the 100 to 110 range. Impressions included pregnancy induced 
hypertension and intrauterine pregnancy of 34weeks. An ultrasound examination was done which revealed a grade 
three placenta and oligohydramnios. On unknown dates, Paxil and BP medication were stopped. Patient 
experienced severe nausea (NAUSEA). Because of these findings, it was decided delivery was indicated. 
The action taken with Paxil and the outcome of the events were unknown at the time of report. Therapeutic 
measures in response to the events, if any, were unknown.