A pharmacist reported that a 55-year-old male patient was diagnosed with progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) while receiving treatment with belatacept for the prophylaxis of renal transplant 
rejection.
This patient with end stage renal failure related to congenital left renal aplasia and chronic nephrosclerosis of a 
solitary functioning right kidney was first seen in the clinic in 1995 and subsequently exhibited very gradual decline 
in renal function before eventually beginning chronic hemodialysis in Mar-2014.
The patient received a deceased donor renal transplant on (b) (6)  The renal allograft originated from a 
young adult. Both donor and recipient were blood group A. The donor was Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) positive and 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) negative. The recipient was seropositive for both EBV and CMV. Prior to transplant, cross 
match was negative and testing for BK nephropathy was negative. The transplant was not considered high risk. 
At induction, the patient received a one-time 30 mg dose of alemtuzumab along with methylprednisolone, 500 mg 
on Day 1, titrated to 250 mg, 125 mg, 60 mg and 30 mg on Days 2, 3, 4, and 5, respectively. On the day of 
transplant, the first dose of belatacept was administered, with the (b) (6)  dose given on Day(b)(6)  (
(b) (6) ).
Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), 1 gram twice daily was initiated. 
The maintenance immunosuppression regimen included MMF, 750 mg daily, belatacept, 5mg/kg intravenous (IV). 
once every 4 weeks, and prednisone, 10 mg orally once daily.
On (b) (6)  the patient presented to the hospital with a seizure and dysarthria.  For 5 days prior to admission, 
he was having difficulty writing and verbalizing thoughts, and had expressive aphasia. 
On (b) (6)  computed tomography (CT) scan of the head without contrast was performed.  The CT scan 
revealed that there was  an area of low density in the left parietooccipital region near the convexity of the skull. This 
appears to have mild mass effect, more that of edema than of an infarct. The possibility of a small neoplasm in this 
region cannot totally be excluded.  After discussion with the neurosurgeon, a low-grade glioma remained within the 
differential diagnosis. 
On (b) (6)  magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain was performed, with contrast. The results revealed
no evidence of an enhancing tumor. Findings in the left parietal region were considered possibly representative of 
an old white matter infarct.
On the same day, laboratory blood test results were as follows:  CMV DNA log copies <2.40, CMV DNA quantity 
<250, EBV VCA IgG 487 unit/mL (normal high <18.0) and EBV VCA IgM 10.6 unit/mL (normal high <36.0).
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 259 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On (b) (6)  MRI of the brain without contrast was performed. The MRI showed  an area of T2/FLAIR [Fluid 
Attenuation Inversion Recovery] subcortical hyperintensity in the left parietal lobe demonstrates elevated choline 
and creatinine with decreased NAA in relation to the choline peak, compatible with a neoplastic process.  Findings 
were likely to reflect a lower grade glioma given the absence of contrast enhancement on recent examination and 
normal-to-low lactate peak. There were other areas of increased T2/FLAIR hyperintensity within the right 
cerebellum and insula/temporal lobe demonstrating a more infiltrative appearance which may reflect additional foci 
of neoplasm; however, no evaluation with spectroscopy was performed on these areas. Given the absence of 
contrast enhancement and no restricted diffusion of these areas, CNS lymphoma/lymphoproliferative disease is 
less likely but not excluded.
On the same day, a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis revealed the following results: direct smear showed red 
blood cells and few white blood cells. No malignant cells and organisms were found. Cryptococcus neoformans 
antigen was negative and there was no growth of fungus.
On (b) (6)  the patient underwent left parietal craniotomy for tumor resection. The initial pathologist s 
interpretation was non-diagnostic, and the tissue block was sent to the local University for consultation. 
On (b) (6)  an MRI of the brain was performed with contrast for status evaluation post craniotomy for tumor 
resection.  The MRI interpretation revealed:   Postoperative changes with biopsy/resection of a portion of the left 
parietal lobe. A small hematoma was present at the site. The remainder of the brain was unchanged. Of note, 
although neoplasm was certainly possible, numerous white matter changes were present. Therefore, etiology such 
as a demyelinating process or even Lyme disease should be considered.  
Treatment during this hospital stay included dexamethasone, 4 mg every 6 hours via intravenous push, initiated on 
(b) (6)  then decreased to  every 8 hours on (b) (6)  The patient was discharged on (b) (6)
Therapy with belatacept and MMF were discontinued. The last dose of belatacept was administered on 08-Jul-
On 05-Aug-2015, the reporting diagnosis from the local University pathologist was  histologic changes consistent 
with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML).
At this time, the treating physicians had not checked for John Cunningham (JC) virus in the blood or CSF because 
PML had not been clinically suspected.  After receiving the consultative diagnosis from the pathologist, the treating 
physicians decided to initiate plasmapheresis, scheduled to begin on 11-Aug-2015.
On 11-Aug-2015, the neuropathologist reported that additional testing on the brain tissue showed JC virus, which 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 260 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
further supported the diagnosis of PML.  The patient s relevant past medical history included anemia of chronic 
kidney disease, bone and mineral disorder of chronic kidney disease, right radiocephalic arteriovenous (AV) fistula, 
and right upper arm brachiocephalic AV fistula. Prior vaccinations included hepatitis B and pneumococcal 
pneumonia. The patient s family history included maternal death at the age of 62 with non-Hodgkin s lymphoma, a 
sister who had ESRD for which she underwent a renal transplant and died 2 years later at the age of 42, and a 
brother who had CKD. 
BMS Medical Evaluation comment:  This 55-year-old male patient, with end stage renal failure related to congenital 
left renal aplasia and slowly progressive nephrosclerosis of a solitary functioning right kidney, received a deceased 
donor renal transplant.  Immunosuppressive therapy included alemtuzumab, methylprednisolone, mycophenolate 
mofetil (MMF), prednisone and belatacept.  Approximately 10 months later, the patient presented with a seizure and
dysarthria.  Initial workup included brain imaging, with a differential diagnosis of tumor and/or infarction. Thus, the 
patient underwent a brain biopsy and histological changes were consistent with progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). Additional testing of the brain tissue showed the presence of JC virus. The treating 
physician s decided to initiate plasmapheresis. Considering that PML can occur in patients on chronic 
immunosuppressive therapy for organ transplant, a contributory role of overall immunosuppression, including 
belatacept, in the reported event, is possible.