This literature report (initial receipt: 11-Aug-2015) concerns a 65-year-old male patient with progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) [unapproved indication, not explicitly reported]. 
The patient was referred because of a 3-month history of progressive, painless visual loss. He had a 16-year 
history of B-cell type chronic lymphatic leukaemia (B-CLL), for which he had received intermittent chlorambucil 
therapy until 3 years ago. Chemoimmunotherapy (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab) was then given 
with complete remission after 6 cycles. Subsequently, high-dosed rituximab was used in a clinical trial setting in 
order to prolong the remission period. 
Best-corrected visual acuity at presentation was 6/10 on the right eye and 7/10 on the left. Anterior and posterior 
segments were unremarkable, as were the pupillary reactions. Ocular movements were full. Visual field 
examination showed bilateral defects. Due to the unexplained visual features, patient underwent cerebral magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI). This revealed bilateral subcortical white matter lesions, predominantly in the occipital 
lobes. Further diagnostic work-up included a neurologic examination - that showed no abnormalities - and lumbar 
puncture. He was also human immunodeficiency virus negative. Lumbar puncture demonstrated presence of John 
Cunningham (JC) virus DNA by polymerase chain reaction. 
Based upon clinical, radiologic and laboratory findings, diagnosis of PML was made. Ophthalmic examination 2 
months later showed vision of hand motions on both eyes. Despite attempted treatment with cidofovir, mirtazapine 
and intravenous immunoglobulins [brand name, manufacturer and batch number not reported], the patient's 
condition rapidly deteriorated with right-sided hemiplegia and cognitive impairment. He died three months after 
diagnosis.
See linked case: BE-BEH-2015053236 (same patient, serious).
Reporter's comment:
The underlying conditions in this patient were his background of long B-CLL history in synopsis with multiple 
immunosuppressive treatments, most notably fludarabine and rituximab, which had caused impaired function and 
very low counts of B and T cells. PML manifests as focal neurologic deficits, rapidly progressing over weeks to 
months. This patient initially presented with a 3-month history of moderate bilateral vision loss as the sole clinical 
manifestation of bilateral occipital lobe demyelination. It took several weeks for other
neurological symptoms to appear, even though the initial MRI showed scattered white matter lesions outside the 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 273 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
occipital lobes.
Unexplained visual loss in immunosuppressed patients should thus call attention to CNS complications and 
necessitates neuroimaging, even in the absence of other focal neurologic deficits.
Company assessment:
Serious criteria: Serious (Death)
Listedness: As the brand name of the administered product was not reported, case is assessed with regards to 
Sandoglobulin Reference Safety Information which is licensed in the country of the report. According to the 
Reference Safety Information, Despite attempted treatment with i.a. intravenous immunoglobulins, the patient's 
condition rapidly deteriorated with right-sided hemiplegia and cognitive impairment in the context of PML with fatal 
outcome is an unlisted adverse event for Sandoglobulin.
Causality: Unrelated as a therapeutic effect after treatment in an unapproved indication cannot be expected. 
However, despite attempted treatment with cidofovir, mirtazapine (both co-suspected drugs per company) and 
intravenous immunoglobulins the patient died three months after diagnosis. Natural progression of the underlying 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in this 65 years old patient with 16-year history B-CLL history in 
synopsis with multiple immunosuppressive treatments provides a more plausible alternative explanation.