Obtain long term safety and clinical status information on peds patients with IBD.This study report was received 
from an investigator via clinical trial (b) (6)
EudraCT #: 2008-005237-30, and concerns an 08-year-old male 
subject (subject ID:(b) (6)  site ID: (b) (6) ) from The United States.
The subject's height was 127.5 centimeters and weight was 24.2 kilograms. The subject's concurrent condition 
included inflammatory bowel disease. The subject had participated in the (b) (6)  (formerly known as 
(b) (6)  The subject was treated with infliximab, recombinant (lyophilized powder, intravenous), dose and 
frequency unspecified, initiated on 14-FEB-2014 for inflammatory bowel disease. Concomitant medications 
included macrogol (polyethylene glycol), calcium carbonate, loratadine, ergocalciferol, hydromorphone 
hydrochloride, folic acid, aminosalicylic acid, azathioprine, paracetamol, lansoprazole, levetiracetam, allopurinol, 
multivitamins, and hydroxycarbamide. The subject presented on (b) (6)  with acute onset chest pain and 
abdominal cramping, admitted for vas-occlusive crisis (vaso-occlusive crisis). The subject was admitted to the 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 50 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
hospital on (b) (6)  In the emergency epartment, the subject was given normal saline bolus and intravenous 
(IV) Dilaudid (hydromorphone). Chest x-ray showed no infiltrates. Abdominal x-ray revealed moderate stool burden 
for which subject received an enema with good results. The subject was admitted to hemeonc service where the 
subject remained stable. The pain remained well controlled with oral Dilaudid (hydromorphone hydrochloride) every 
4 hours, and the subject did not receive oxygen while inpatient. The subject was discharged on the same day with 
Dilaudid (hydromorphone hydrochloride) script. This serious adverse event was not a disease progression and was 
moderate in intensity. The SAE did not result in a surgical procedure nor related to surgical procedure. The SAE 
was not an infection. The dose of infliximab, recombinant was not changed. The subject had recovered from vaso-
occlusive crisis without sequelae on (b) (6)  The subject was currently enrolled in other registry or clinical 
trial. The investigator assessed the causality between vaso-occlusive crisis and infliximab, recombinant as doubtful.
Company causality was assessed as doubtful for the event. The investigator assessed the event as unlikely related 
to Miralax (macrogol) (polyethylene glycol), calcium carbonate (Tums), loratadine (Claritin), ergocalciferol, 
hydromorphone hydrochloride (Dilaudid), folic acid, aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA), azathioprine, paracetamol, 
lansoprazole (Prevacid), levetiracetam (Keppra), allopurinol, multivitamins, and hydroxycarbamide.
This report was serious (hospitalization).
This case, involving the same patient is linked to 20150116313.
Additional information was received from a physician on 08-JAN-2016.
Concomitant medications included lidocaine and heparin. On (b) (6)  the subject experienced vaso-occlusive
crisis (previously reported as (b) (6) ). Subject's admission history taken on (b) (6)  symptoms started 
suddenly on (b) (6)  around 17:30 hours. Perianal pain was also reported several hours before admission. 
Subject's mother stated at admission that subject was passing stools normally, and has not had any change in 
bowel habits nor endorsed any blood in stool. Subject's moderate stool burden resolved with enema and perianal 
pain resolved per admission history on (b) (6)  No indication in the medical record that an ECG (electro 
cardio gram) was performed due to chest pain. It was reported that per discussion with nurse, X-ray, not ECG, is 
standard of care for vaso-occlusive crisis. On (b) (6)  Toradal (ketorolac) was given. Subject's laboratory 
data included: On (b) (6)  the subject underwent blood culture results were negative. No urine analysis 
found. On (b) (6)  the subject's blood count: red blood cell count was 2.13 10e6/mm3 (low), hemoglobin was
7.4 g/dl (low), hematocrit was 21.1% (low), mean cell volume (MCV) was 99.1 Femtoliters, mean cell haemoglobin 
(MCH) was 34.7 pg, mean cell haemoglobin concentration (MCHC) was 35.1 %, red cell distribution width (rdw) 
was 23.4 %, (High), lymphocyte count was 26 % (low), monocyte count was 15% (high). Subject's RBC morphology
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 51 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
includes: Howell jolly count (occasional), polychrom, (2 +), "Vac" WBC (1 +), hypochrom (occasional), RBC 
fragments (occasional), ovalocytes (1 +), microcytes (occasional), macrocytes (occasional), sickle cells (2 +), 
anisocytosis (1 +), poikilocytes (1+), spherocytes (occasional), target cells (1 +), elliptocytes (occasional), tear drop 
cells (occasional). The subject's reticulocyte count was 19.0% (high), sedimentation rate (west) was 48 mm/hr 
(high), bilirubin total was 1.3 mg/dl (high), aspartate aminotransferase AST(SGOT) was 58 u/l (high), blood alkaline 
phosphatase was 165 u/l (low), C-reactive protein was 1.4 mg/dl (high). Other diagnostics included on (b) (6)
 subject's NRBC (nucleated red blood cell count) was 27/100 white blood cell (high), subject's Ret Hgb 
(reticulocyte hemoglobin) was 37.0 pg (high). It was not reported whether the primary serious adverse event (SAE) 
of vaso-occlusive crisis was secondary to disease progression. The investigator assessed the event as unlikely 
related to concomitant medication lidocaine and heparin. Investigator information was updated in reporter screen.