Case number# PHEH2015US015735, is an initial report received from a physician on 11 Aug 2015 from a patient 
oriented program (Gilenya Go Program, POP ID: POP00002581) and a follow up report received on 02 Sep 2015 
from a consumer (patient). 
This report refers to an adult female patient with history of multiple sclerosis (MS). The patient current condition 
included bipolar disorder. The patient had steroids before it had made her racy and irritable, on the high end. This 
poly medicated patient received Gilenya (fingolimod) capsule 0.5 mg for the treatment of multiple sclerosis from 15 
Jun 2011 at a dose of 0.5 mg, QD (oral). 
The patient felt tired when she started Gilenya and had a heart rate that was in the 50's, she did have some 
bradycardia. The patient discontinued Gilenya on 08 Jun 2012 for an unknown reason and was restarted on 04 Apr 
2013 at 0.5 mg QD (oral). The patient was on Gilenya for two and a half years and stated while on Gilenya the 
patient felt tired and weak and she had more migraines on it. The patient stated she did not feel well on it and she 
was not certain that it helped her. On 29 Aug 2014, MRI showed brain new T2 and enhancing lesions, C-spine, CM 
junction lesion, T Spine- no lesions. The patient was diagnosed with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). 
The patient did not wish to start Gilenya again. The patient was on Gilenya prior to pregnancy and did well on it (see
case: PHEH2012US011652, PHEH2014US000609). It was reported that patient would transition to Gilenya. The 
physician asked her to have a cardiology consult and a pulmonary consult with consideration to switching back to 
Gilenya.
The patient started to receive Tecfidera (dimethyl fumarate) for the treatment of multiple sclerosis from an unknown
date at an unknown dose, route and frequency. It was assessed that since her last visit 05 Sep 2014, the patient 
was on Tecfidera and she did have some random flushing. Initially she did have diarrhea and stomach cramping 
but this had ended. The patient was in the post-partum period at 6 months and has had a recent relapse as well as 
disease activity on her magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan. During the visit to physician on 25 Feb 2015 
(follow up neurological evaluation) the patient stated that, since last month she had numbness in her right hand and
right foot and right side of her face, which was lasted for several weeks about 4 weeks. The patient also had some 
urinary hesitancy when this happened. The patient noted that she was also feeling unbalanced / balance mild 
during that time. The patient's right eye felt strained during that time as well. Over the past few days she had a 
spasm under her breast and it hurts to breathe, like her ribs could not expand. The patient was back to baseline 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 282 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
right now, she had some spasms in her back right now. Due to numbness the patient was dropping things and 
having trouble writing (dysgraphia). The patient had short-term memory difficulty (mild), difficulty in getting her 
thoughts out, fatigue (mild), tonic spasms, exercise induced asthma, did not use inhaler. The patient's 
gynecological examination was abnormal. The patient received Depo-Provera (medroxyprogesterone acetate) shot 
and had abnormal bleeding since that time. The patient's motor examination showed gait was narrow based ataxia 
with tandem (gait disturbance). Sensory examination showed decreased to vibration at the toes (sensory 
disturbance).
During the visit to physician on 06 May 2015, the patient stated that since her last visit, she had felt like her right leg
had been heavy at times when she first stands up to walk and it felt like it was not there and would drop and she 
would stumble. This had been over the past few weeks occasionally. The patient also had more vertigo and 
balance difficulties. The patient stated that it was better now- resolved after 2 weeks. It would occur 1-2 times a day
during that period. The patient was bumps into things. The patient was hard to formulate a thought, might repeat 
the same wrong word. The patient had Uthoff's (Uhthoff's phenomenon), mild asthma and seasonal allergy. 
Serology examination showed JCV AB +0.24. MRI showed new T 2 lesions, no lesions on C-spine and T-spine. It 
was assessed that she had MRI progression on Tecfidera. 
During the visit to physician on 04 Jun 2015, it was noticed that the patient still had some balance difficulties, also 
had some speaking problems (speech disorder), losing her train of thought easily. The patient started to have 
migraines again- 2 a week for the past few weeks. Her right leg weakness was better. The patient had short-term 
memory difficulty (moderate), felt that she could not think very well and could not formulate the thoughts, difficulty 
thinking of words. It was assessed that, the patient had disease progression both clinically and radiologically on the 
Tecifedra.
During the visit to physician on 11 Aug 2015, it was noted that the patient had new lesions on Tecfidera. The new 
symptoms included right fingers and toes are tingling and recently vision- a flashing of light in the left inferior 
temporal region of the left eye. The patient had head emptiness feeling (light headedness) in the past few weeks. 
The patient also had numbness of bilateral plantar surface of feet in the morning and went away within one hour. 
She reported that her proprioception was still of and she has had some falls. The patient had occasional balance 
difficulties, foggy thinking, Lhcrmittes sign, Uthofl's syndrome and headache. The patient was using inhaler once 
every 2 months for exercise-induced asthma, never had any problems with the Gilenya and her asthma. On 05 Aug
2015, physical examination showed, filed vitals was 1428 (unknown units), BP was 85/89. Neurological examination
showed cranial nerves acuity was 20/30 and 20/25 (R/L). The patient stated that she had a flare up (multiple 
sclerosis relapse) on 24 Aug 2015 and was put on steroids on the same day (for 12 days). On 24 Aug 2015, the 
patient started having double vision (diplopia) and had been experiencing vertigo and fatigue (second occurrence). 
Therapy status with Tecfidera was reported as ongoing. Outcome of the events multiple sclerosis relapse, diplopia, 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 283 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
vertigo and fatigue (second occurrence) was reported as condition unchanged and outcome of other events was 
reported as unknown.
Seriousness of the events was not reported. Seriousness assessment of the RRMS was upgraded based on NVS-
IME list, and progression of multiple sclerosis was upgraded based on the information available in the source 
document. Causality of the events was not reported by the physician.
Follow up report received on 02 Sep 2015 from a consumer (patient): Added new events multiple sclerosis relapse, 
diplopia, vertigo and fatigue (second occurrence).