(b) (6) .This report was received from an 
investigator via clinical trial(b) (6)
 EudraCT #: 2008-005237-30, and concerns a 9-year-old male subject (subject ID: (b) (6)  site ID: (b) (6) ) from 
the United States.
The subject's height was 127.5 centimeters and weight was 24.2 kilograms. The subject's concurrent conditions 
included inflammatory bowel disease. The subject was currently enrolled in another registry or clinical trial. The 
subject also had participated in the (b) (6)  (formerly known as (b) (6)  The subject was 
treated with infliximab, recombinant (lyophilized powder, intravenous) unspecified dose and frequency initiated on 
14-FEB-2014 for inflammatory bowel disease. Concomitant medications included methylphenidate, loratadine, 
calcium carbonate, hydroxycarbamide, macrogol (polyethylene glycol), mesalazine, azathioprine, paracetamol, folic 
acid, allopurinol, multivitamin, levetiracetam, lansoprazole, and hydromorphone hydrochloride. On (b) (6)
the subject had presented for outpatient infliximab infusion and subsequently found to have hemoglobin of 5 (units 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 46 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
not specified) (captured as anemia). The subject was admitted in hospital and received 1 unit of packed red blood 
cells per hematology recommendation. The transfusion was successful and without complaints. The subject also 
complained of abdominal pain and bloody stools. The subject had undergone stool culture, calprotectin and 
clostridium difficile was ordered and the results had showed that no antigens or clostridium difficile toxin detected 
and cultures were negative. On an unspecified date in (b) (6)  the subject had undergone follow-up CBC 
(complete blood count) and the results had showed that the improved hemoglobin was 8.5 (units not specified). On 
(b) (6)  the subject was discharged home in improved condition. The severity of anemia was reported as 
severe. The serious adverse event of anemia had not resulted in or related to a surgical procedure. The serious 
adverse event of anemia was not a result of disease progression and not an infection. The dose of infliximab, 
recombinant was not changed. The subject had recovered without sequelae from anemia on (b) (6)  The 
investigator assessed the causality between anemia and infliximab, recombinant as unlikely related (captured as 
doubtful). Company causality was assessed as doubtful. The investigator assessed the causality between anemia, 
methylphenidate, loratadine, calcium carbonate, hydroxycarbamide, macrogol, mesalazine, azathioprine, 
paracetamol, folic acid, allopurinol, multivitamin, levetiracetam, lansoprazole, and hydromorphone hydrochloride as 
unlikely related.
This report was serious (hospitalization).
Additional information was received from investigator on 21-AUG-2015. 
Additional reporter was added in reporter screen.
Additional information was received from investigator on 25-JAN-2016.
Concomitant medications included lidocaine and heparin. On (b) (6)  the subject experienced multifactorial 
anemia. The site amended the event term from anemia to multifactorial anemia. It was reported that as per GI 
(gastrointestinal) investigator (in ongoing consultation with hemeonc providers), the subject tends to have low 
hemoglobin as a result of underlying sickle cell disease. Decision was made in this case to admit for RBC 
transfusion. As per GI investigator, bloody stools and abdominal pain intermittent with this subject, and was not 
likely the primary cause of anemia in this case. No other relevant diagnostic tests done, nor did the GI attending 
provider find it necessary to further address the subject's underlying colitis during this hospitalization. The serious 
adverse event of multifactorial anemia had not resulted in or related to a surgical procedure. The serious adverse 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 47 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
event of multifactorial anemia was not a result of disease progression and not an infection. The severity of 
multifactorial anemia was reported as severe. The subject had recovered without sequelae from multifactorial 
anemia on (b) (6)  The investigator assessed the event as unlikely related to concomitant medications 
lidocaine and heparin. The investigator assessed the causality between multifactorial anemia and infliximab, 
recombinant as unlikely related (captured as doubtful). Company causality was assessed as doubtful. Previously 
reported event of anemia was deleted.