Case number# PHEH2015US014581, is a report initially received from a patient (consumer) via a Patient Oriented 
Program, Gilenya go program (POP ID: POP00002581) on 27 Jul 2015. This report refers to a 46-year-old female 
patient.
The patient's historical condition was not reported. Current conditions included low vitamin D level, urinary urgency 
frequency and stratify JC (John Cunningham ) virus antibody positive on 06 Aug 2014. Concomitant medications 
included Vitamin D (ergocalciferol) and oxybutynin. The patient received Gilenya (fingolimod) capsule (batch/lot 
number: F0007, expiration date: Apr 2016) for the treatment of relapsing multiple sclerosis from 06 Apr 2015 at a 
dose of 0.5 mg, QD (oral). The patient received another batch of Gilenya (batch/lot number: F0009, expiration date:
Jul 2016) at 0.5 mg, QD (oral) from 27 Apr 2015.
On an unknown date, the patient stated that she "had been unbalanced like when standing and teetering and when 
she moved her head, she felt like she was on a roller coaster, like her stomach dropped and she had balance 
issues but never wobbled back and forth" (balance disorder). The patient felt that the event could be due to MS 
(multiple sclerosis) but she also thought that the event could be due to the side effects of Gilenya. The patient 
concluded stating that she did not know if it was due to Gilenya or something other cause. It was reported that the 
patient had vertigo and stuff on an unknown date, before she was diagnosed and that was probably her first 
symptom. It was also reported that lot of times when turned her head, she had dizziness more often on an unknown
date (in the past week or so). Discussing about PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy), the patient 
stated that she was relapsing right now (multiple sclerosis relapse). The patient also had some problems finding 
words (aphasia), kind of like some cognitive stuff (cognitive disorder). The patient's MRI (magnetic resonance 
image) performed on an unknown date about three weeks ago (as of initial report) revealed some enhancing 
lesions (central nervous system lesion). The patient was not as visibly having to balance when she stands. The 
patient reported that she was actually feeling better as it had been so long it usually lasts only about a month. Upon 
follow up the physician reported that on 31 Jul 2015, the patient complained of sensory imbalance and the recent 
progressive imbalance from the past 10 days (from the time of report) and the patient was ordered to undergo brain
MRI, urine and serum creatinine, flu and complete blood count tests. On 13 Oct 2015, the patient complained of 
fatigue but had no further complaint on sensory disturbance and balance disorder. During the office visit, the patient
reported that she had modest benefit from starting Provigil (modafinil). Therapy with Gilenya was ongoing at the 
time of this report. The patient had completely recovered from the event balance disorder in 2015 and sensory 
disturbance on an unknown date. The outcome of the events vertigo and dizziness was reported as condition 
deteriorated. The outcome of the event multiple sclerosis relapse was reported as condition improving. The 
outcome of the event fatigue was reported as condition improving. The outcome of the events aphasia, cognitive 
disorder and central nervous system lesion was reported as condition unchanged.
Seriousness of the events was not reported. The seriousness assessment of the event multiple sclerosis relapse 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 277 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
was upgraded based on the information available in the source document. The causality of the events was not 
reported by the consumer.
Follow-up report received on 25 Aug 2015 from a physician from a patient oriented program (POP ID: 
POP00002581; Gilenya go program): Added Gilenya dosage regimen and added events JC virus test positive, 
multiple sclerosis relapse, thought blocking, cognitive disorder and central nervous system lesion.
Follow up received on 05 Jan 2016 from a physician: Updated the events sensory disturbance and fatigue. 
Concomitant medication Vitamin D and oxybutynin was updated and its indications as current conditions. Updated 
the outcome of the event balance disorder. Updated the indication of suspect product. The event JC virus positive 
was deleted and it was updated as historical condition. Updated the event verbatim 'off balance'. Narrative was 
amended accordingly.
Follow up report received from nurse, via a Patient Oriented Program, Gilenya go program (POP ID: 
POP00002581) on 28 Mar 2016: Added nurse as a reporter and treatment drug of Provigil for fatigue.