A professor of neurology spontaneously reported that a 56 year old female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) 
for Multiple Sclerosis from 2009 to Jul 2015 was hospitalized (dates not provided) after coming under suspicion for 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) (onset  Jul 2015).  The patient tested positive for anti-JCV 
antibodies in 2009.  Symptoms at presentation included visual disturbance affecting visual fields and speech 
disorder.  An MRI (date unknown) showed findings suspicious for PML described as non-enhancing confluent 
lesions in the left parietal region, not typical for MS.  A lumbar puncture (LP) was done on an unknown date and the
patient's cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was sent for JCV DNA testing via PCR at a local laboratory on 13 Aug 2015 
(lower limit of detection unknown); at the time of this report results were pending.  Treatment for the event included 
plasma exchange (PLEX), starting on an unknown date, with the 2nd cycle done on17 Aug 2015; a third cycle was 
planned.  The event of suspected PML was ongoing.  The professor of neurology did not provide a causality 
assessment.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued in Jul 2015 due to suspicion of PML.
Update 26 Aug 2015:  The professor of neurology provided the following additional information.  The patient 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 289 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
received TYSABRI therapy from 2009 to 09 Jul 2015 and did not experience any interruptions.  The patient was not 
enrolled in any TYSABRI clinical trials.  The patient was diagnosis with MS in 2000.  MS symptoms included ataxia, 
para spasticity, status-post retrobulbar neuritis, and eye motility disturbance.  The patient had not received any prior
immunosuppressive therapy.  Prior immunomodulatory therapy included "immunomodulatory therapy (NOS)".  MRI 
control examinations on TYSABRI therapy on a routine basis were performed every 6 months and 3 months, 
respectively.  The patient had no relevant past medical history or concomitant disease and was not taking any 
concomitant medications.  An MRI prior to the suspicion of PML was done on 20 May 2015 (results not reported).
Suspicion for PML was prompted by clinical symptoms that led to an MRI examination.  Clinical symptoms included 
visual disturbances in the right half of the visual field and reading dysfunction since Jul 2015.  The patient was 
hospitalized from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  due to the suspicion of PML.  The MRI with PML specific changes was 
performed on (b) (6)  and, compared to the MRI from 20 May 2015, showed the following:  moderate 
accentuation of the internal CSF spaces. Known multiple hyperintense lesions in T2weighted / FLAIR located in the 
white matter /callosum were displayed. Newly occurred diffusely hyperintense changes in T2weighted / FLAIR of 
approximately 3 x 4.5cm in size were seen which were located in the left occipital region more pronounced 
subcortical. These changes showed a shine through effect in the diffusion weighted imaging. No evidence of a 
blood brain barrier (BBB) disturbance was found. No signal reduction particularly in the hemosequence in this area 
was found.  The patient had a lumbar puncture (LP) on (b) (6)  that was positive for JCV DNA at 400 
copies/mL.  Further analysis of the CSF was normal.  Laboratory testing at time of suspicion of PML included 
leukocyte count of 13.2/nl, and relative lymphocyte count of 25.8% (reference ranges not reported).  Treatment 
included 3 cycles of plasmapheresis (PLEX) ((b) (6)  (b) (6)  and (b) (6) ), mirtazapine, and mefloquine.
Update 10 Sep 2015:  Biogen considers this case to be confirmed for PML based on positive CSF, consistent 
radiological findings, and clinical symptoms.