AER 1626578 is a spontaneous literature case, received on 25/Aug/2015, from a physician via company 
representative and pharmacist (medical information employee) and concerns a 61 year old male patient who 
developed suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and suspicion of progression of the lymphoma 
whilst being treated with rituximab (Mabthera), cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisolone.
The patient's medical history included hypertension and he also underwent emergency surgery for gastrointestinal 
tract perforation accompanied by diffuse peritonitis. Intraoperatively, a bulky tumour was found in the caecum 
consistent with diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) : CD20+; bcl6+; bcl2+; CD3-; CD15-, CD30-; Ki67 in 70% of 
cells. Computed tomography (CT) showed involvement of lymph node regions on both sides of the diaphragm. The 
bone marrow was free from lymphoma infiltration. Blood tests revealed markedly elevated blood lactate 
dehydrogenase (LDH) activity - 1,209 U/l (normal range: 240-480 U/l), C-reactive protein (CRP) concentration- 97 
mg/l (normal range: 0-5) and anaemia- hemoglobin (HGB)= 9.8 [g/dl] of the microcytic type - Mean cell volume 
(MCV)= 75 fl. Upon admission WHO performance status was 3, International Prognostic Index (IPI) scored 4 and 
the patient was HIV negative. After corticosteroids pre-treatment with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, 
vincristine and prednisolone (R-CHOP) was administrated at doses reduced by 25-50%. He improved gradually and
continued R-CHOP at standard recommended doses outpatient. He remained well until the fifth course of R-CHOP 
when his wife reported changes in her husband's behaviour in the form of memory disturbances and subtle 
changes in personality. During the medical interview he denied having any complaints. He responded logically, and 
was well oriented to place, time and himself. His consciousness was clear. Physical examination including 
neurological assessment failed to demonstrate signs of elevated intracranial pressure or any other abnormalities. 
On subsequent days of observation, however, subtle changes in his behaviour were identified, encompassing 
periodic confusion, lack of critical thinking, agitation - without accompanying pathological neurological symptoms. 
The family reported progressive changes in his personality. Neurological assessment still showed no significant 
abnormalities indicating focal lesions. CT demonstrated a nearly complete remission of lymph node lesions. 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain, however, revealed multiple small diffuse lesions of the infiltrative 
and oedematous types occupying almost entirely white matter and, to a lesser extent, also the cortex of the frontal 
lobes and the left temporal lobe, and periventricular white matter of the left occipital lobe. Similar abnormalities 
were also found bilaterally in the deep cerebral structures, in the right thalamus, penetrating into the posterior limb 
of the internal capsule. Following contrast administration there was moderate enhancement in the region of the 
most pronounced lesions in the frontal lobes. Additionally, the examination showed the presence of a convexity 
meningioma located in the right parietal area, measuring 17x12 mm of no clinical significance. No signs of 
infiltration were found within the meninges. The combined findings suggested either multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy or progression of the lymphoma. Flow cytometric characterization of the cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) showed the presence of 41% of lymphoid cells; the remaining cells being macrophages. An analysis of 
lymphoid cells revealed exclusively T-cells: CD45+; CD5+ and CD3+ and a complete absence of B-cells CD19/20+.
A PCR assay failed to identify the DNA of the JC virus. As the clinical picture was not typical for CNS infiltration by 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 307 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
lymphoma, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) diagnosis was suggested and symptomatic 
treatment with antioedema agents and immunoglobulin infusion was started. A temporary improvement in somatic 
symptoms was noted, however his mental disturbances exacerbated. Open brain biopsy was decided, however his 
condition rapidly deteriorated and soon after he died after developing signs of cerebral oedema. Post-mortem 
examination demonstrated a complete remission of lymphoma lesions in the chest and abdominal cavity. 
Macroscopically, the brain appeared swollen, with narrowed cerebral sulci and flattened gyri. The arachnoid 
showed a slight congestion. The left hemisphere, particularly the frontal and temporal lobes, displayed significant 
losses of grey matter with a marked disproportion in the volume of white matter in relation to the right hemisphere. 
The presence of meningioma was confirmed. Classical microscopic examination of the brain showed areas of 
infiltration with large immune cells CD20+ suggesting progression of the underlying disease (specimens were 
collected from multiple locations within both hemispheres): LMP1(-), Ki67(++) in ca. 45% of cells, CD3(-) - visible 
multiple small CD3 (+) T-cells, visible enlarged oligodendroglial nuclei. PCR examination of the brain for JC virus 
was negative. High microscopic magnification (30-60,000 x) identified an electron-dense centre as viral DNA and 
an electronlucent envelope as most likely protein capsid. The viral particles were round in shape, measuring 35-45 
nm, and exhibited essentially no variation in shape or size. No fibre (rod) forms were observed. Virus-like particles 
were also present in the usually narrow strip of cytoplasm, however they were capsid-free. Despite the presence of 
histopathological triad and demonstration of virus particles in electron microscopy, presence of viral DNA could not 
be confirmed by PCR testing. As a result, despite the formal fulfillment of the criteria, histopathological diagnosis of 
PML was questioned, especially against an unambiguous detection of isolated progression of lymphoma in the 
central nervous system. Additional examinations of post-mortem biopsy material taken from subcortical white 
matter (frontal and temporal lobe regions) by light microscopy (LM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) 
were performed. LM analysis of semi-thin sections confirmed the presence of demyelinating foci in the white matter
region. Oligodendroglial cells that represent the main site of active JVC infection were found to have structural 
abnormalities. Particularly notable were enlarged nuclei of these cells and the presence of intranuclear inclusion 
bodies. No lymphocytic infiltrations were found in the pathologically altered tissue. Electron microscopy only 
demonstrated slight postmortem changes that developed during the 8-hour period between the patient's death and 
the fixation of brain tissue. This enhanced the value of the TEM results that showed inclusion bodies, i.e. 
aggregates containing nucleoproteins and virus-like bodies. The structures were located within interchromatin 
spaces in large oval shaped oligodendroglial nuclei. The nuclear envelope had numerous isolated scattered 
enveloped viruses. Physician assessed that treatment tolerance was very good, first symptoms were associated 
with changes in patient's behaviour, which led to perform further diagnosis. Diagnosis was confirmed in the 
autopsy. It failed to make a diagnosis during life. 
There was insufficient information regarding therapy ongoing status of R-CHOP at the time of death.
The authors assessed the event suspicion of progression of the lymphoma as related to R-CHOP and the event of 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 308 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as related to rituximab but did not provide the causality 
with CHOP.
The authors did not provide the seriousness criteria for the event of suspicion of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy.
The company assessed the event of suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as medically 
significant.
 Further information has already been requested.
Kulma-Kreft M, Tukaj C, Rymkiewicz G, Smialek U, Grabarczyk P, Lesniewski-Kmak K and Zaucha J. 
Diagnostics of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in a patient with concomitant lymphoma in filtration of 
central nervous system during R-CHOP chemotherapy - a case presentation and review of the literature. 
Hematology and Oncology 2014; 1 (2): 1-7.
Kulma-Kreft M, Lesniewski-Kmak K and Zaucha J. 
Diagnosis and treatment of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. 
Acta Haematologica Polonica 2015; 46: 280-285.
Additional information was received on 28/Aug/2015 and following information was added to the case: Reporter 
details (1st reporter's name, address and contact details), Patient details (Age and gender), medical history of the 
patient, suspect drugs (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisolone), new event (suspicion of 
progression of the lymphoma), laboratory tests and literature references were added. Event progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy was updated to suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy along with its 
outcome as fatal and the clinical course of the events suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and 
suspicion of progression of the lymphoma was also updated.
Additional information was received on 08/Sep/2015 and following information was added to the case: The product 
details of suspect drug (Rituximab) was updated, the reporter causal relationship of the event suspicion of 
progression of the lymphoma was updated to related for CHOP (previously not provided) and the reporter causal 
relationship of the event suspicion progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was updated as not provided 
(previously reported as related), the outcome of the event suspicion progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
was updated to not provided, it was not the reason of patient death (previously reported as fatal) and the reporter 
seriousness and the company seriousness for the event of  suspicion progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
was updated to not reported and medically significant respectively.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 309 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
This case was cross-referenced with AER 1626579 (same reporter and same report).
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML