Case number# PHEH2015US008921, is an initial report received on 04 May 2015 from a consumer (patient) and a 
follow up report received on 24 Aug 2015 from a consumer (patient) from a patient oriented program, 
POP00002581 (Gilenya Go Program). This report refers to an adult female patient.
The patient's medical history was not reported. Past medication included Lexapro. The patient stated that she was 
told to stop taking Lexapro so that she could start on Gilenya back in January. Concomitant medications were not 
reported. The patient received Gilenya (fingolimod) capsule 0.5 mg (batch/lot number: S0090A; expiration date: Jun
2016) for multiple sclerosis from 07 Jan 2015 at a dose of 0.5 mg, QD (oral).
She did ok for 3 weeks then she experienced dizziness and horrible emotions (emotional disorder). She was then 
placed on a low dose of Wellbutrin (bupropion hydrochloride) only for January and February. The patient reported 
that about 45 days ago she started on Viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride) and she told her health care provider that 
she needed something besides the Wellburtin. She stated that she had gastrointestinal issues that she dealt with 
when first started the Viibryd. Per her report she was feeling massively depressed again (depression), profoundly 
sad (depressed mood), it was kind of been like hell. She questioned whether depression / worsening of depression 
had been reported with Gilenya. The patient denied any suicidal or self-harm ideal / intent. The patient also reported
that she had gained about 15 pounds in last 6-7 weeks. She also reported that she had allergy stuff 
(hypersensitivity) nasty sinus cold (sinusitis) in January or February. It was reported that, progressively she had 
more and more issues. The patient originally thought that maybe they were related to the heat/whether and 
changes going on in life but she found out that they were related to very low white blood count (white blood cell 
count decreased). The patient stated that, her white blood cell value was 0.3 (white blood cell count decreased). 
She reported that in June it was in low range, then in July was even lower. The patient reported that, she had 
reoccurring cough (cough) that would come and go and be nonstop at times, she thought that cough may be 
because of allergies/weather initially. The patient was feeling horrible or awful (feeling abnormal). 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 303 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The patient stated that, she was feeling that Gilenya was impacting quality of life; she could barely function. The 
patient also reported that she was concerned over reports of PML in Gilenya patients as she had JCV virus (JC 
virus test positive). She stated that she thought she was developing PML as she had balance issues (balance 
disorder) at one point but was getting better with physical therapy (physiotherapy). It was reported that, the patient 
stopped taking Gilenya, last dose was taken on 09 Aug 2015. The patient also reported that she gained about 15 
pound (weight increased) while taking Gilenya but stated that she had fatigue and was eating poorly too (decreased
appetite). The patient reported since stopping Gilenya, she had more energy and lost 10 pounds and felt better. 
The patient stated that, she still coughed sometimes but not like she did before. The patient also had other event, 
paraesthesia (refer case: PHEH2015US000819). Action taken with Viibryd was unknown. The outcome of cough 
was reported as condition unchanged (ongoing), improved for weight gain and for other events was unknown.
The seriousness and causality assessment of the events was not reported by the consumer. Seriousness 
assessment of (depression, white blood cell count decreased) was upgraded based on information available in the 
source documents.
Follow up report received on 24 Aug 2015 from a consumer (patient) from a patient oriented program, 
POP00002581: Stop date of Gilenya, events, white blood cell count decreased, weight increased, feeling abnormal,
JC virus test positive, balance disorder, decreased appetite, fatigue and cough.