AER 1626579 is a spontaneous case, received on 25/Aug/2015 from a physician via company representative 
(source identification number: 5667) and concerns a male patient of unknown age who developed suspicion of 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and progressive dementia while being treated with rituximab 
(Mabthera).
No medical history, past drugs, concurrent conditions and concomitant medications were reported.
On an unknown date, the patient started therapy with rituximab (route, dose, form and frequency not reported) for 
an unknown indication. Later, he experienced suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy with 
neurological symptoms. It was reported that the physician assessed the neurological symptoms as symptoms of 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and admitted to neurology department. His current neurological 
problems were described as progressive dementia associated with age. Later, patient probably returned home. As 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 312 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
patient is out of reporting physician's reach and the physician does not even remember the patient's name, the 
physician refused to fill out guided questionnaire regarding occurrence of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy .
At the time of this report, the outcome of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and progressive dementia 
was not reported and it was unknown whether the therapy with rituximab was ongoing or not.
The physician assessed the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as possibly (probably) related to rituximab 
and the progressive dementia as not related to rituximab.
No further information was provided.
This case was cross referred with AER 1626578 (same reporter).
Additional information was received on 14/Sep/2015. The following information was added to the case: Event 
progressive dementia  was added. Physician denied to fill the guided questionnaire and its reason was updated in 
narrative.