Case number# PHEH2015US016824, is a combined initial report received on 26 Aug 2015 from a physician via a 
patient oriented program (POP ID: POP00002581, Gilenya Go Program). This report refers to an adult female 
patient.
The patient's historical conditions included anxiety, fall, dizziness, tingling, numbness, reflux and snoring. 
Concurrent conditions included depression, balance disorder, chronic tinnitus, caffeine (2-3 cups per day). The 
patient had a history of low vitamin D (hypovitaminosis), but she had not taken vitamin D. In the past the patient 
was treated with Tegretol (carbamazepine) but it did not help. The patient had allergy with Copaxone (glatiramer 
acetate). Concomitant medications included Ambien (zolpidem tartrate), Zoloft (sertraline hydrochloride), baclofen 
and gabapentin. The patient had an eye exam before the Gilenya and apparently it was a normal exam. The patient
received Gilenya (fingolimod) capsule 0.5 mg for the treatment of relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis from 11 Sep
2013 at a dose of 0.5 mg, QD (oral). 
Per medical notes dated 21 Aug 2015, the patient was on Gilenya and she was doing well on it, no acute 
exacerbations had occurred in the last 2 years at least. The patient had last MS exacerbation probably around 18 
months ago. The patient did not have any symptoms that have changed other than she complained of a pins and 
needles sensation (paraesthesia) in the RUE (right upper extremity) and the bottoms of her feet are numb 
(hypoaesthesia). The patient complained of chronic tinnitus, more of a white noise all the time (tinnitus). The patient
had multiple episodes paresthesias and dysesthesias (dysesthesia). The patient was treated with IV steroids and 
oral steroids. The patient had been stable on gabapentin. The patient reported that she had headaches and vision 
problems (visual impairment). The patient complained of tingling in the face on and off and intermittent blurred 
vision, right more than left (blurred vision). The patient had anxiety and she took medication for that. The patient's 
husband denied witnessed apnea, but she seemed to have some sleepiness issues. The patient had daytime 
sleepiness (somnolence). This could be secondary to MS but could not rule out possibility of obstructive sleep 
apnea with Mallampati class of 4/4 and history of snoring. The patient was taking Provigil (modafinil) for daytime 
sleepiness. The patient needed to have a sleep study and this was explained to her. 
The patient was positive for varicella zoster antibodies (varicella virus test positive) and JCV positive (JC virus test 
positive). The patient had some bladder resistance (bladder disorder). On an unknown date the patient had 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 323 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
anaphylaxis (anaphylactic reaction) and was hospitalized. The patient had dyspnea and respiratory abnormalities 
(respiratory disorder). The last dose of Gilenya was in Apr 2015 and she wanted to be back on that. The patient had
no refills after Apr 2015 and she had not been on any medication since then. The outcome of the events was 
reported as unknown. 
Seriousness of events (excluding anaphylactic reaction) was not reported. Seriousness assessment of somnolence
upgraded based on information available in source document. Causality of the events was not reported.