This spontaneous report was received from literature. Shahani L, Shah M, Tavakoli-Tabasi S. Immune 
reconstitution inflammatory syndrome in a patient with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. BMJ Case 
Reports 2015: 1-3.
Brand name of darunavir was not reported and it was assumed to be J and J brand for reporting purpose.
This case report concerns a 52 year old male patient from the United States.
The patient's weight and height were not reported. The patient had been diagnosed with human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) 3 months earlier at an outside hospital after an admission for pneumonia and concurrent condition 
included progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). The patient was treated with darunavir (tablets, oral) 
dose and frequency unspecified along with non-company suspect drugs emtricitabine (formulation and route of 
administration unspecified) dose and frequency unspecified, tenofovir (formulation and route of administration 
unspecified) dose and frequency unspecified and ritonavir (formulation and route of administration unspecified) 
dose and frequency unspecified initiated on an unspecified date for the treatment of HIV infection. Concomitant 
medications were not reported. He had responded well to the regimen, with an improvement in his CD4 count from 
67 to 153 cells/mcL and suppression of his viral load from 1530 to 71 copies/mL. Three weeks prior to his current 
presentation, he began to experience mental cloudiness and blurry vision, and had difficulty with balance and 
walking. On further questioning, the patient mentioned having mild cognitive difficulties for the past 5 months. His 
neurological examination was remarkable for a left homonymous hemianopsia. MRI of the brain was performed to 
characterise the mass and showed nodular perivascular space enhancement with surrounding vasogenic oedema 
and midline shift. On an unspecified date, the patient developed worsening symptoms in the setting of initiation of 
antiretroviral therapy with immune recovery, a diagnosis of JC virus-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory
syndrome (IRIS) was made. With recent literature on the use of CCR5 antagonist maraviroc in PML, the patient 
was started on maraviroc 150 mg twice a day and noted to have improvement in PML IRIS. Action taken with 
darunavir, emtricitabine, tenofovir and ritonavir were not reported. A Trofile Assay had shown the HIV-1 to be 
exclusively CCR5 tropic. Two months later, a repeat MRI showed improvement in the lesion. The patient reported 
complete resolution of his neurological symptoms. Maraviroc was continued in the patient for a year, when his MRI 
had shown complete resolution of the previously observed lesions. It was reported that although the patient had 
some baseline cognitive impairment, the neurological deficits significantly worsened after the initiation of highly 
active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). This is consistent with the unmasking form of IRIS to PML, where subtle 
clinical symptoms of PML worsened on an unspecified date after initiation of HAART and with laboratory evidence 
of improved immune status. The patient was recovering from worsening PML and outcome for IRIS was not 
reported. It was concluded that maraviroc can be used to augment the current HIV regimen and, at the same time, 
improve the outcome of PML IRIS.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 316 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
This report was serious (medically significant).