Published Literature
Case Report
Events: Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML)
A 52-year-old man was diagnosed with stage IVB diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The patient received 
6 cycles of chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP regimen), the 
standard of care for patients with advanced non-Hodgkin lymphoma, but did not respond and the disease 
progressed. Rituximab was added, as suggested by Sehn et al for patients with therapy-refractory diffuse large B-
cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. After the administration of rituximab, the patient presented with acute neurological 
symptoms that included photophobia, derailment, loss of speech, and dizziness, as well as convergent strabismus 
of the left eye, bradylalia, myoclonic movements of the upper limbs, marked hypotonia of the lower limbs, and fecal 
incontinence.
The computed tomography scan showed no metastatic spread of the lymphoma and analysis of the cerebrospinal 
fluid demonstrated the absence of malignant infiltration of the central nervous system. Nevertheless, magnetic 
resonance imaging of the brain revealed multiple infiltrative lesions of the deep white matter, the periventricular 
area, the corpus callosum, and the thalamus. Subependymal extension was noted, along with perilesional edema. 
Authors' Comments:
We read with great interest the article by Carson et al, in which they described 5 cases of PML associated with 
brentuximab vedotin therapy as part of the Southern Network on Adverse Reactions (SONAR) project. This 
condition was diagnosed among patients who received brentuximab vedotin-based chemotherapy for various 
lymphoid malignancies. This antibody-drug conjugate directed toward the protein CD30 was approved by the US 
Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of recurrent or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma and recurrent or 
refractory systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma. As Carson et al reported the diagnosis of PML after therapy 
with amonoclonal antibody-based drug, herein our group also reports another case of PML in a patient with a 
lymphoid malignancy after combination chemotherapy with a similar drug, namely rituximab.
PML is a rare side effect of chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin lymphoma, with severe consequences for the patient if 
not diagnosed early. Our report demonstrates the importance of a magnetic resonance imaging-based diagnosis of 
this disease after monoclonal antibody-based chemotherapy regimens for lymphoid malignancies, a key aspect in 
the clinical management of these patients because the immune reconstitution may lower their morbidity and 
mortality.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 320 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information