This spontaneous report was received from literature.
Verheyen J, Maizus K, Feist E, Tolman Z, Knops E, Saech J, et al. Increased frequency of JC-polyomavirus 
detection in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with multiple biologics. Med Microbiol Immunol 13-Feb-2015; 204: 
The aim of the present study was to analyse the pattern of JC-polyomavirus (JCPyV) infections in patients with 
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) undergoing treatment with biologic agents. Urine (n = 222) and blood (n = 172) samples 
unstructuredly taken from routine diagnostics were retrospectively analyzed from 80 RA patients treated with 
biologics. All patients were informed about the risk of developing Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy 
(PML) under immune suppressive therapy and gave their consent for this study. Blood samples were tested for the 
presence of JCPyV DNA in parallel with urine samples. In addition, levels of serum antibodies were determined, in 
most patients at a single time point DNA extraction was performed using the MagnaPUre LC 2.0 (input volume of 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 333 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
500-100 microliters elution volume) and JCPyV DNA was determined using assays from TIB MOLBIOL. The 
antibody detection method was based on glutathione S-transferase (GST)-capture Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent 
Assay (ELISA) in combination with fluorescent bead technology using affinity-purified JCV VP1 bacterially 
expressed as GST fusion protein and affinity-purified directly on glutathione-coated beads as antigen. A Luminex 
analyser identified the internal colour of the individual beads and quantified bound human immunoglobulin Ig 
[expressed as median fluorescence intensity (MFI) of at least 100 beads per colour per serum] through the reporter
fluorescence of bound secondary reagents). JCPyV genetyping was performed by amplifying and sequencing the 
control region and VP1 using previously published nested Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) protocols. Categorical
variables were analyzed using the Fisher's exact test. This report concerns a single patient of an unspecified age 
and sex from Germany. The patient's height and weight were not reported. The patient's concurrent condition 
included rheumatoid arthritis. The patient was treated with golimumab (solution for injection, subcutaneous) dose 
and frequency unspecified, initiated on an unspecified date for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Concomitant 
medication included methotrexate. On an unspecified date, the patient on golimumab developed JC virus infection. 
The patient's urine was tested for JCPyV DNA which was positive. The patient did not develope neurological 
symptoms suggestive of PML at any time point. Action taken with golimumab was not reported. The outcome for JC
virus infection was not reported. The author concluded that further studies were needed to define the diagnostic 
workup (including the standardization of assays and definition of cut-offs) for the PML risk assessment of the 
patients with rheumatoid diseases. The rare risk of developing PML in patients with rheumatic diseases and a great
variety of treatment regimens using biologic and/or immunosuppressive agents in these patients underscored the 
need of developing specific criteria of probably multiple factors for risk assessment in patients with rheumatic 
diseases.
This report was serious (medically significant).
This case, from same reporter was linked to 20150901426.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 334 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information