This spontaneous report was received from literature.
Verheyen J, Maizus K, Feist E, Tolman Z, Knops E, Saech J, et al. Increased frequency of JC-polyomavirus 
detection in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with multiple biologics. Med Microbiol Immunol 13-Feb-
The aim of the present study was to analyse the pattern of JCPyV infections in patients with RA (rheumatoid 
arthritis) undergoing treatment with biologic agents. Urine and blood samples unstructuredly taken from routine 
diagnostics were retrospectively analysed from 80 RA patients treated with biologics. All patients were informed 
about the risk of developing PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy) under immune suppressive therapy 
and gave their consent for this study. Blood samples were tested for the presence of JCPyV DNA in parallel with 
urine samples. In addition levels of serum antibodies were determined. JCPyV genetyping was performed by 
amplifying and sequencing the control region and VP1 using previously published nested PCR (polymerase chain 
reaction) protocols. 
This report concerns 12 patients of an age between 58.7 (+/- 9.6) years of an unspecified sex from Germany. The 
patients' height and weight were not reported. The patients' concurrent conditions included rheumatoid arthritis. The
patients were treated with infliximab, recombinant (lyophilized powder, intravenous) initiated on an unspecified date 
for rheumatoid arthritis. Non-company suspect drugs included: methotrexate (unspecified, unknown) initiated on an 
unspecified date for an unspecified indication. Concomitant medications were not reported. On an unspecified date,
12 patients' were tested positive for JCPyV DNA (JC virus infection) in urine. None of the patients developed 
neurological symptoms suggestive of PML at any time point. The initial detection rate of JCPyV DNA in the urine of 
patients was 32.5 % (26/80). Neither the age of patients nor the average time since treatment with the first biologic 
started nor the frequency of methotrexate (MTX) coadministration was different between JCPyV-positive and 
JCPyV-negative patients. However, the average number of biologics that had consecutively been used for RA 
treatment was significantly higher in the group of patients tested positive for JCPyV DNA. Particularly, the exposure 
to adalimumab and infliximab was significantly higher in this group of patients. Overall, JCPyV DNA prevalence in 
the urine was significantly higher in RA patients who had previously been treated with more than one biologic agent 
over time. JCPyV antibody titres were significantly higher in patients who tested positive at least once for JCPyV 
DNA in the urine (JCPyV DNA positive: 4871 ( 2741) MFI vs. JCPyV DNA negative: 1461 ( 1802) MFI, p < 
0.0001). Accordingly, patients who had been treated with more than one biologic agent over time had higher titres 
of JCPyV antibodies. However, four patients were found to be seronegative for JCPyV antibodies (<400MFI) 
despite being DNA positive in the urine. Another four patients had high levels of antibodies (>4500MFI) but were 
consistently negative in the urine. Action taken with infliximab, recombinant and methotrexate was not reported. 
The outcome of JC virus infection was not reported.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 330 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The author concluded that further studies are needed to define the diagnostic workup (including the standardization
of assays and definition of cut-offs) for the PML risk assessment of the patients with rheumatoid diseases. The rare
risk of developing PML in patients with rheumatic diseases and a great variety of treatment regimens using biologic 
and/or immunosuppressive agents in these patients underscore the need of developing specific criteria of probably 
multiple factors for risk assessment in patients with rheumatic diseases.
This report was serious (medically significant).