Case number# GXKR2015DE004213, is an initial spontaneous report from a physician provided by the Drug 
Commission of the German Medical Association (sender, DE-DCGMA-15167199) via the German Health Authority 
(BfArM homepage, case no DE-BFARM-15283396) received on 07 Sep 2015.  This report refers to a 53-year-old 
male patient. Historical condition included pulmonary sarcoidosis from an unknown date in 2009 (Remission under 
6-monthly oral steroid treatment (50 mg/d prednisone) and relapse 2.5 years later). Concomitant medication was 
not reported. Due to relapse treatment with prednisone (manufactuer unknown) was restarted at a daily dose of 50 
mg, but due to signficant "increase of intraocular pressure under prednison 50 mg/d" (intraocular pressure 
increased) the daily dose of prednisone was gradually reduced within one year and concurrently the therapy with 
azathioprine initiated. Several months later the sarcoidosis progressed and the daily dose of prednisone was 
temporarily increased up to 20 mg daily, whereas the azathioprine dose remained unchanged: Azathioprine 
(Manufactuer unknown) was administered for the treatment of pulmonary sarcoidosis at a daily dose of 100 mg 
from 18 Jan 2012 (oral). On unknown dates, about four years after diagnosis of pulmonary sarcoidosis, the patient 
experienced "organic brain syndrome" (mental disorder due to a general medical condition) with "behavior disorder"
(abnormal behaviour) corresponding to fronal dissociation, "confabulation" and "amnestic aphasia" (aphasia) as 
well as "fatigue at daytime" (fatigue). On 10 Dec 2013, the patient experienced "progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy" (leukoencephalopathy, PML). The patient was hospitalized on an unknown date for the PML.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 348 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The medical examination showed "extensive warts on bottom of feet, suspected papilloma" (papilloma viral 
infection) annd mild tendency to fall when walking to the left. The following significant tests were recorded: Nuclear 
magnetic resonance imaging brain on an unknown date showed PML: broad contrast agent uptaking lesion right 
frontal and extensive perifocal oedema. Red blood cell sedimentation rate on an unknown date was 10mm/h, IL-2 
receptor assay on an unknown date was 1331U/l (decrease from formerly 1503 U/l), Calcium on an unknown date 
was 2.31mmol/l (normal), Lymphocyte count (420-1375 /ul) on an unknown date was 300/ul, HIV test on an 
unknown date was negative, CD4 lymphocytes (1420-1375 /ul) on an unknown date was 147/ul, CD4/CD8 ratio (1-
2.3) on an unknown date was 0.4, IL-2 receptor assay on an unknown date was 1503U/l and GFR on an unknown 
date was 86ml/min (unremarkable). The biopsy brain was performed on an unknown date with intraoperative 
removal of liquor showing no signs of tumor but of progressive multifocal leukenzephalopathy with bold marks of 
antibodies against JC virus (JC virus test positive). Treatment with Prednison was stopped on an unknown date. 
Treatment with Azathioprine was stopped on 23 Dec 2013. The patient was treated with dexamethasone for 
treatment of brain oedema and with mirtazapine for blocking the serotonergic receptors and with Valproat 
(valproate sodium) for prophylaxis of seizure. Initially the patient's organic brain syndrome worsened: The patient 
developded "hemiplegia", "coma states" (coma) and later on "2 grand mal seizures" (generalised tonic-clonic 
seizure) as well as "bacterial infections, including MSRA" (bacterial infection) requiring antibiotic therapy (not 
otherwise specified). The outcome of the event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) was reported as 
condition improving. Twelve months after diagnosis of PML the patient was at home, bed-ridden and depressive, 
but by internistic criteria stable. The outcome of the related events was not reported. The event 
leukoencephalopathy (life threatening) was considered serious by the physician. Seriousness of the event 
intraocular pressure increased, bacterial infection and papilloma viral infection was not reported. The author 
suspected causality between immunsuppressive treatment and onset of leukoencephalopathy and papilloma viral 
infection. No causality assessment was provided for bacterial infection. The author stated that bacterial infection 
occurred later despite absent immunsuppresion. The author reported intraocular pressure increased as suspected 
to be related to treatment with Prednison and as not suspected to be related to Azathioprine (which started after 
onset of adverse event). The sender assessed leukoencephalopathy as suspected to be possibly-related to 
treatment with both suspect medications.
Follow-up report retrieved from literature on 09 Dec 2015. The author discussed progressive multifokale 
leukenzephalopathy (PML) as a serious complication of immunsuppressive therapy. The article was published in 
Dtsch Med Wochenschr 2015; 140:1291-1293. Updated medical history (pulmonary sarcoidosis from an unknown 
date in 2009, remission under 6-monthly oral steroid treatment (50 mg/d prednisone) and relapse 2.5 years later). 
Updated lab data ( Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging brain on an unknown date showed PML: broad contrast 
agent uptaking lesion right frontal and extensive perifocal oedema. Red blood cell sedimentation rate on an 
unknown date was 10mm/h, IL-2 receptor assay on an unknown date was 1331U/l (decrease from formerly 1503 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 349 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
U/l), Calcium on an unknown date was 2.31mmol/l (normal), Lymphocyte count (420-1375 /ul) on an unknown date 
was 300/ul, HIV test on an unknown date was negative, CD4 lymphocytes (1420-1375 /ul) on an unknown date was
147/ul, CD4/CD8 ratio (1-2.3) on an unknown date was 0.4, IL-2 receptor assay on an unknown date was 1503U/l 
and GFR on an unknown date was 86ml/min (unremarkable). The biopsy brain was performed on an unknown date
with intraoperative removal of liquor showing no signs of tumor but of progressive multifocal leukenzephalopathy 
with bold marks of antibodies against JC virus (JC virus test positive). Updated suspect drugs (suspect drug was 
changed from prednisolone to prednisone, dosage and therapy dates amended (Due to relapse prednisone 
(manufactuer unknown) was restarted at a daily dose of 50 mg, then due to side effect the daily dose of prednisone
was gradually reduced within one year and concurrently the therapy with azathioprine initiated. Several months later
the sarcoidosis progressed and the daily dose of prednisone was temporarily increased up to 20 mg daily, whereas 
the azathioprine dose remained unchanged), adverse events added (intraocular pressure increased; (about four 
years after diagnosis of pulmonary sarcoidosis) the patient experienced "organic brain syndrome" (mental disorder 
due to a general medical condition) with "behavior disorder" (abnormal behaviour) corresponding to fronal 
dissociation, "confabulation" and "amnestic aphasia" (aphasia) as well as "fatigue at daytime" (fatigue); later on 
hemiplegia", "coma states" (coma) and "2 grand mal seizures" (generalised tonic-clonic seizure): Diagnosis 
"progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy" (leukoencephalopathy, PML). In addition "extensive warts on bottom 
of feet, suspected papilloma" (papilloma viral infection) and "bacterial infections, including MSRA" (bacterial 
infection)).Measures amended (The patient was treated with dexamethasone for treatment of brain oedema and 
with mirtazapine for blocking the serotonergic receptors and with Valproat (valproate sodium) for prophylaxis of 
seizure) as well as antibiotic therapy (not otherwise specified) for bacterial infection). Outcome amended (PML 
remained condition improving; twelve months after diagnosis of PML the patient was at home, bed-ridden and 
depressive, but by internistic criteria stable. Outcome of the related events was not reported). The event 
leukoencephalopathy with related symptoms remained serious (life threatening). Seriousness (intraocular pressure 
increased, bacterial infection and papilloma viral infection not reported) Causality by reporter (author suspected 
causality between immunsuppressive treatment and onset of leukoencephalopathy and papilloma viral infection, no 
causality assessment for bacterial infection (bacterial infection occurred later despite absent immunsuppresion), 
intraocular pressure increased suspected to be related to treatment Prednison and not suspected to be related to 
Azathioprine (which started after onset of adverse event)).
Follow-up report received on 29 Dec 2015: Receipt of translated literature article without any changes of clinical 
relevance.