This spontaneous report from an other health professional, via another company (PRA International - 13937) via 
another manufacturer (Janssen- 00111116), concerns a 2-year- old female patient from the United States: 
016766124A.
The patient's height and weight were not reported.
The patient's medical history and concurrent conditions included: abdominal pain, adenoidectomy, asthma, 
bloating, bronchoscopy, carnitine deficiency, central line placement, central venous line infection, fever, food allergy
(milk and soy), gastric reflux, gastrointestinal dysmotility, gastrostomy tube placement beginning (b) (6)
jejunostomy beginning (b) (6)  klebsiella central line infection, mild developmental delay, mitochondrial 
neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy, obstructive sleep apnea, pain, rhinitis, seizure disorder, streptococcal 
pharyngitis, and tonsillectomy. The patient had a drug history of cisapride and had previously experienced allergy 
when taking amoxicillin, allergy when taking lactated ringer's, and allergy when taking propofol.
The patient was treated with paracetamol (unspecified formulation, route of administration, dose and frequency) 
initiated on an unspecified date for fever and ibuprofen (unspecified formulation, route of administration, dose and 
frequency) initiated on an unspecified date for fever. Concomitant medications included pyridoxine, macrogol, 
mometasone furoate, multivitamins, rifaximin, saccharomyces boulardii, gabapentin, hyoscyamine, vicodin, 
solutions for parenteral nutrition, salbutamol sulfate, cisapride for refractory gastroesophageal reflux disease and 
gastrointestinal motility disorders, ubidecarenone, esomeprazole magnesium, levetiracetam, levocarnitine, 
melatonin, and metronidazole.
On 01-Nov-2014, the subject developed some emesis, which her mother reported was bile only and after 
connecting her to her Farrell bag, a lot of bile content was extruded. She had not been having any diarrhea and her 
mother reported she had not stooled in 14-15 days (have not passed a stool).
Laboratory data was provided as follows:
chest x-ray 03-NOV-2014 Unspecified, lymphocytes  26 %, white blood cell count  11.8 (unit unspecified). Other 
diagnostics included Central line culture drawn on 03-Nov-2014 was positive for coagulase-negative 
Staphylococcus and Staphylococcus aureus.
Action taken with paracetamol was not reported.
The patient had recovered from emesis on 07-NOV-2014 and have not passed a stool on an unspecified date. 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 63 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
This report was not serious.
This case, involving the same patient is linked to 20141115895.
Additional information was received from consumer on 29-Dec-2014.
Other identification number was updated. The report contained no new regulatory relevant information.