Case number PHHY2015US110340, is an initial literature case report received on 08 Sep 2015. The author 
discussed about progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy: a rare infectious complication following allogeneic 
hematopoietic cell transplantation. This report refers to a 65-year- old male patient. Medical history was not 
reported. On an unspecified date, the patient received modified BFM regimen including intrathecal methotrexate 
(manufacturer unknown) at unknown dose, rituximab 850 mg weekly for acute lymphocytic leukemia. After 3 
months, the patient received reduced intensity fludarabine (manufacturer, formulation, dosage, route of 
administration) and melphalan as conditioning regimen for hematopoietic stem cell transplant. Post-transplant 
complication included Enterococcus faecalis lumbar disc space infection. Acute delayed gastrointestinal and skin 
GVHD was observed on post-transplant day 134 and treated with prednisone orally at a dose of 100 mg and 
tacrolimus at unknown dose (manufacturer and formulation unknown). Cytomegalovirus viremia was detected on 
day 150 post-transplant and was treated with intravenous ganciclovir. Prednisolone was discontinued on post-
transplant day 231 and tacrolimus on post-transplant day 299. On post-transplant day 329, the patient was reported
to experience weakness and stiffness in lower extremities. Neurological examination revealed marked spasticity of 
lower extremities, frequent plantar flexor spasms and bilateral Babinski signs and he was unable to ambulate while 
MRI of the brain revealed patchy t2/flair hyperintensity in the left corona radiata and centrum semiovale white 
matter suggestive of demyelination and post gadolinium volumetric t1-weighted imaging showed subtle foci of 
contrast enhancement along the left corona radiata. Light microscopy showed marked gliosis and ground-glass 
intranuclear inclusions in oligodendrocytes. In situ hybridization studies performed on paraffin-embedded tissue 
demonstrated JC viral DNA in the nuclei that established the diagnosis of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. The patient quickly progressed, developing quadriparesis and the inability to swallow. The 
patient die on post-transplant day 262. Action taken with prednisolone and tacrolimus was treatment discontinued 
while with rituximab, methotrexate, fludarabine, melphalan was not applicable. The outcome of the event 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was fatal while for Enterococcus faecalis lumbar disc space infection, 
GVHD, cytomegalovirus was not reported. The event progressive multifocal encephalopathy was fatal while 
seriousness of Enterococcus faecalis lumbar disc space infection, GVHD, cytomegalovirus was upgraded on the 
basis of information present in the source document. The author concluded that PML was a complication of 
immunocompressed state and immunocompressive therapy.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 381 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information