Kaufman GP, Aksamit AJ, Klein CJ, Yi ES, Delone DR, Litzow MR. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy: a 
rare infectious complication following allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). Eur-J-Haematol 2014; 
A 65-year-old man developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) following treatment with rituximab,
methotrexate, fludarabine, melphalan, prednisone, and tacrolimus [ not all routes or dosages stated; durations of 
treatments to reactions onsets not clearly stated ]. He subsequently died. The man had acute lymphoblastic 
leukaemia and was initially treated with induction chemotherapy which included intrathecal methotrexate and 
rituximab 850mg weekly for four total doses, completed 3 months before haematopoietic stem cell transplant 
(HCT). He underwent HCT with a reduced intensity conditioning regimen including melphalan and fludarabine. He 
developed a post-transplant complication of graft versus host disease (GvHD) on day +134 after the transplant and 
this was treated with oral prednisone at a maximum dosage of 100mg daily and oral tacrolimus. Prednisone was 
tapered and stopped on day +231. Tacrolimus was stopped on day +299. On day +329, his wife reported that his 
lower extremities were stiff and he was weak. Neurological examination showed marked spasticity of his lower 
extremities, bilateral Babinski signs and plantar flexor spasms. He could not ambulate. An MRI of his brain was 
suggestive of demyelination. Results from a brain biopsy showed marked gliosis and there were ground-glass 
intranuclear inclusions in oligodendrocytes. JC viral DNA was detected in the nuclei using in situ hybridisation 
studies, which established the diagnosis of PML. The man progressed quickly, developing an inability to swallow 
and quadriparesis. Comfort care measures were started and he died approximately 1 month after symptom onset, 
on day +362 [ cause of death not stated ].
Company Comment:
Serious: Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (fatal) is an unlisted event for methotrexate, fludarabine, 
melphalan and tacrolimus. Causality is assessed as possible, based on temporal relation. Non-Mylan suspect 
medication rituximab and prednisone confounds the causality.