This is a spontaneous report from a Pfizer-sponsored program Quillivant XR Branded Safety IVR/Live Operator 
Script/Live Operator FAQs. A contactable female consumer reported for her currently 10-year-old, Caucasian son 
started to receive methylphenidate hydrochloride (QUILLIVANT XR), oral from 11Aug2015 at 4 ml, 5 ml, from 
17Sep2015 at 6ml (30mg) and from 28Oct2015 at 7 ml (35mg) then increased to 8ml (40 mg) once a day in the 
morning for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)/ School ADHD. Lot number: 03215021A, Expiration date:
Jan2017 (also provided as Jul2017).Medical history included attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder from Sep2011 
and ongoing, headache from 2011, "premmie" and adopted. Concomitant medication included ongoing 
paracetamol (TYLENOL) from 2010 as needed for headaches, dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride (FOCALIN XR) 
for ADHD from 2012 to Sep2015 at unknown dose and from Sep2015 at 20 mg. The patient started this [treatment 
for ADHD] in first grade and had been on it for 5 years. Past drug events included first they tried methylphenidate 
hydrochloride (CONCERTA) 10mg and that gave him tics; amfetamine aspartate/amfetamine 
sulfate/dexamfetamine saccharate/dexamfetamine sulfate (ADDERAL) didn't do anything several years ago; tried 
dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride(FOCALIN) 10mg then 15mg; took lisdexamfetamine mesilate (VYVANSE) for a 
couple of  months in 2012, first tried 20mg then 30mg and he didn't focus enough; In the Summer of 2012 they tried
atomoxetine hydrochloride (STRATTERA) and once school started it didn't work well enough also mentioned that it 
was close to useless and it didn't affect him in any way so they went back to FOCALIN; They also tried the 
methylphenidate (DAYTRANA) patch in 2013 and it worked until he got older and then it wasn't as effective, it 
wasn't strong enough, he liked those; They then went back to the FOCALIN XR, they had tried FOCALIN short 
acting but it didn't last as long, FOCALIN XR caused headaches; He also did not like to take pills and it was a 
constant struggle to get him to take it, When he was taking the FOCALIN XR 20mg he would take it at 7:15 each 
morning and was in the nurses office everyday by 2:00 with a headache, He wasn't eating and ate very little for 
lunch and it would be 8 at night before he would be ready to eat and he wouldn't drink much and be dehydrated. 
They got the FOCALIN. This was prescribed over 6 months ago and she should not be using it but, they used a 
dose of FOCALIN XR a week or 2 ago on a Sunday so that the patient would eat dinner. The doctor was trying to 
find a medication that worked for ADHD without causing tics and things. They tried different things more for the 
convenience; the patient didn't like big pills and he had some tics on them. He had been on FOCALIN XR 20 mg for
quite some time and they saw a new doctor that put him on the methylphenidate. They were advised it could take a 
time or 2 to get it regulated. The consumer stated the doctor changed her son's dose from 6ml to 8ml. They were 
advised to titrate the methylphenidate up from 4ml, then 5ml, then 6ml. It was different with the methylphenidate. 
He was eating and drinking more with it and did not experience headaches. She brought him to the doctor on 
16Sep2015 and his methylphenidate was increased to 6ml a day from 17Sep2015. The dose was increased 
because the doctor could tell by his behavior that it needed to be increased. He had had no side effects with the 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 69 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
medication. His mother gave him the last dose of the 6ml. Originally prescribed for ADHD and the dose was 
increased because of focus. He was not lasting long enough in the day since 11Aug2015. His doctor's appointment 
was at 4 and he was coming off of his medicine and was all over the place. He usually took his medication at 7:15 
in the morning. The 6 mL wasn't quite sufficient but the 8 mL was working beautifully. He liked the liquid, it really 
made a difference. He was supposed to take the methylphenidate 6 times a week. They tried not to do it every 
Sunday but they unfortunately had to give him some. The idea to not give the dose on Sunday was so he could be 
himself and run around. The mother said her son likes the liquid, it really made a difference. He tried the patch, that
also worked but it wasn't strong enough. The mother reported that they were having trouble getting his prescription 
filled because the pharmacist spelled his last name wrong. She stated that he was going to have to continue 
spelling it wrong in order for him to get it filled. The consumer further reported that the patient did not admission to 
hospital or did not receive the treatment for event dose increased because it was not lasting long enough in the day.
The cosumer stated that there was not a "problem" with the drug it was simply that they started with 4ml & have had
to increase to 7-8 ml to get an adequate response. The child had been on numerous other medications & 
methylphenidate worked better & without the other side effects (tics, total loss of appetite, headaches.) They were 
happy with this product- as long as they can afford it. The action taken in response to the event for methylphenidate
hydrochloride was dose increased. The outcome of the event was unknown. 
Follow up (21Sep2015): New Information received in response to query sent includes: Concomitant drug data.
Follow up (21Oct2015): New information from the same contactable consumer includes: suspect drug lot and 
expiration, current dose, history, new event pharmacist spelled name wrong.
Follow-up (24Nov2015): New information received from a Product Complaint Group includes: reaction details.
Follow-up (01Dec2015): New information received from the same contactable consumer includes: suspect drug 
data, concomitant drug data and event detail. 
Follow-up attempts completed. No further information expected.
Follow-up (03Jan2016): This follow-up report is being submitted to amend previously reported information: Event 
data updated.