Medically Significant
A report was received from literature.  Hodel J, Outteryck O, Verclytte S, Deramecourt V, Lacour A, Pruvo J-P, 
Vermersch P, and Leclerc X.  Brain magnetic susceptibility changes in patients with natalizumab-associated 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.  American Journal of Neuroradiology; 27 Aug 2015.  doi: 
10.3174/ajnr.A4436.  This case is in reference to patient number 12, a 58 year old female patient.  The patient was 
on TYSABRI therapy from an unknown date to an unknown date for relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis for a total 
of 65 months of exposure.  On an unknown date, the patient's cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was negative for JCV DNA.
 The patient had 4 available MRIs (dates and results not reported), covering the "pre-symptomatic to chronic stage".
 The patient did not have susceptibility weighted imaging.  The patient did have T2 weighted imaging.  The PML 
lesions were found in the right frontal area and were not adjacent to basal ganglia.  There was low-signal intensity 
within the U-fibers.  There was not low-signal in the deep gray matter.  The time of detection of the susceptibility-
weighted signal abnormality was noted as "pre-symptomatic and after".  The FLAIR and T2 [MRI] images were 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 402 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
reported at asymptomatic and symptomatic stages.  At the asymptomatic stage, a small area of cortical low-signal 
intensity was visible on T2 image within the right central sulcus, with faint signal abnormalities on FLAIR.  At the 
symptomatic stage, the cortical hypoinensity on T2 image was more prominent, while subcortical FLAIR 
hyperintensity was obvious.  The authors stated that they considered the patient to be diagnosed with PML based 
on highly suggestive imaging and clinical follow-up in the setting of negative CSF.  The authors considered the 
event to be related to TYSABRI.  The status of TYSABRI therapy was not reported.