AER 1636860 is a spontaneous case, received on 21/Sep/2015 from a rheumatologist and concerns a 55 year old 
female patient who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy whilst being treated with rituximab 
(Mabthera).
The patient's medical history, past drugs and concomitant medications were not reported. Concurrent conditions 
included sharp syndrome.
In 1997, the patient was diagnosed with disseminated lupus erythematosus. On an unspecified date in 2009, she 
started therapy with intravenous rituximab 1 g twice in 6 months, for disseminated lupus erythematosus. In 
(b) (6)  she developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (life threatening and persistent and significant
disability), aggravated and was hospitalised. It was reported that, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was 
confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and cerebrospinal liquor examination (PCR positive for JC virus). 
In 2015 (date unspecified), the therapy with rituximab was discontinued.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 396 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
At the time of this report, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was persisting. 
The rheumatologist assessed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as related to rituximab.
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 23/Nov/2015. Following information was added to the case: patient details 
(initials and date of birth) were added, patient's gender updated to female (previously male), concurrent conditions 
(sharp syndrome), rituximab therapy details, onset date of event progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(previously not reported), outcome updated to not recovered (previously not reported) and seriousness updated to 
life threatening, persistent and significant disability and hospitalization (previously medically significant), causality 
updated as related to rituximab (previously not reported) and narrative description (progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy was confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and cerebrospinal liquor examination 
(PCR positive for JC virus)) was added.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML