MedDRA CODING: 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
Neutropenia
REPORT TYPE:
Initial
COUNTRY OF OCCURANCE
Saudi Arabia
VERBATIM OF REPORTER: 
The patient was a 55-year-old man who first presented with a complaint of cough, fever, and a 4-kg weight loss 
over eight months' duration. Physical examination was significant for right axillary lymphadenopathy. A CT scan 
showed hepatic and splenic lesions and multiple abdominal lymphadenopathies. The patient underwent bone 
marrow and right axillary lymph node biopsies.
The pathology showed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma with bone marrow involvement (stage IV-B).
He received R-CHOP. The patient had significant clinical improvement on R-CHOP but developed
prolonged neutropenia which required several hospital admissions, despite the use of granulocyte
colony stimulating factors. Following additional review, the pathological diagnosis was revised to
nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin's lymphoma; however, the patient was continued on the
same regimen. After four cycles of R-CHOP, he had excellent clinical and radiological response to the treatment. 
The fifth cycle was delayed, as the patient did not appear for the therapy until the following month, when the 
treatment was resumed. After completing six cycles, a positron emission
tomography (PET) scan showed several small lymph nodes in the mediastinum and in the lung hilar areas with very
low Standardized Uptake Values (SUV) of 2.1 of unknown significance. A month
later, he was admitted with seizure activity. A CT scan of the brain followed by an MRI showed multiple brain 
lesions. The MRI of the brain showed multifocal cortical and subcortical periventricular lesions with no edema and 
enhancement. A similar lesion was noted in the brainstem. He was initially started on anti-bacterial and antifungal 
treatment. A brain biopsy was performed with a pathological diagnosis of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. During his stay, he became unresponsive and bedridden. He had percutaneous endoscopic 
gastrostomy (PEG) tube insertion. Mefloquine was not used due to G6PD deficiency.
TYPE OF REPORTER AND PATIENT DEMOGRAPHICS:
Information is received from literature article Jaffar A. Al-Tawfiq, Ramzi W. Banda, Riyadh A. Daabil, M. F. 
Dawamneh. A. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in a patient with lymphoma treated with 
rituximab: A case report and literature review. J Infect Public Health. 2015 Sep-Oct; 8(5): 493-7. This case 
concerns a 55-years-old male patient.
A 55-years-old male patient.
MEDICAL HISTORY/CONCURRENT CONDITIONS:
The patient is a case of Hodgkin's lymphoma. Patient`s concomitant condition includes percutaneous endoscopic 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 387 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
gastrostomy (PEG) tube insertion.
SUSPECTED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS:
Therapy with Doxorubicin, Vincristine, Cyclophosphamide, Rituximab and Prednisone began on unknown date and 
ended on unknown date (Duration: unknown) for the treatment of lymphoma. Identification of product Doxorubicin, 
Vincristine and Cyclophosphamide Fresenius Kabi Oncology Ltd. was not confirmed (Doxorubicin, Vincristine and 
Cyclophosphamide manufacturer unknown).
CONCOMITANT MEDICINAL PRODUCTS:
No information was given regarding concomitant medication. 
TIMINGS CONDITIONS AND EVENT DETAILS:
Patient developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and neutropenia on unknown date while on 
treatment with suspect drugs.
RELEVANT PHYSICAL/LABORATORY VALUE FINDINGS:
CT scan: showed hepatic and splenic lesions and multiple abdominal lymphadenopathies.
Biopsy: bone marrow and right axillary lymph node.
Positron emission tomography (PET) scan: showed several small lymph nodes in the mediastinum and in the lung 
hilar areas with very low Standardized Uptake Values (SUV) of 2.1
CT scan: showed multiple brain lesions.
MRI of Brain: showed multifocal cortical and subcortical periventricular lesions with no edema and enhancement.
Brain biopsy: performed with a pathological diagnosis of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
CORRECTIVE TREATMENT AND OUTCOME:
Granulocyte stimulating factor, Anti-bacterial and antifungal drugs were given as corrective treatment. The outcome
of the case is not recovered.