Initial Receipt Date = 17/Sep/2015. 
This 54 year old, Caucasian male subject was participating in a clinical trial, a multicenter, controlled, open-label 
extension (OLE) study to assess the long-term safety and efficacy of AMG 145 and developed episodes of 
depression due to chronic pain symptoms. 
The subject's medical history included primary hyperlipidemia, silent ischemia, bypass operation, stent placement, 
cramps in the calf due to treatment with statins, kidney stones (calcium oxalate), hemorrhoids, hemorrhoid surgery, 
myocardial ischemia, coronary bypass operation, mixed dyslipidemia, distal sensible symmetrical polyneuropathy 
(small fiber neuropathy), severe ischemic cardiomyopathy, three vessel disease, grade I obesity, sensible 
polyneuropathy, leukocytosis, microcytic hypochromic erythrocytes, latent hypothyroidism (suspected Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis), smoker (currently five to eight cigarettes per day), alcohol use (occasionally a bottle of beer or a glass of
wine on a few weekends), hypercholesterolemia, and fibromyalgia. The subject's family history included 
hypercholesterolemia, myocardial ischemia and coronary bypass operation (to mother at the age of 50 years for 
two times). Concomitant medication reported included Delix (ramipril), Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid), Concor 
(bisoprolol fumarate), L-thyroxin (levothyroxine sodium), Crestor (rosuvastatin calcium) since 2009, Omacor 
(omega-3-acid ethyl ester), Selen loges (sodium selenite), and Lyrica (pregabalin).
The subject received the first dose of open label investigational study drug on 08/Jan/2015. In Apr/2015, the subject
developed epididymitis on the right. On 05/May/2015, the subject underwent ureterorenoscopy with urethra basket 
after insertion of a double J stent for kidney stones. On (b) (6) , the subject was hospitalized (pre-planned) 
because of episodes of moderate depression. The subject attributed his depression to chronic pain. At the time of 
admission, the subject did not experience pain. During hospitalization, the vitals of the subject revealed blood 
pressure 140/80 mmHg and pulse 60 /min. The subject was in good general condition and had obese nutritional 
status. The physical examination revealed no conspicuousness, except for left side of the neck suspected for 
enlarged submandibular gland (enlargement known for a long time according to the subject). There was slightly 
bubbling tinnitus in both ears at night. The movement of the vertebral column was restricted due to pulling pain in 
the back. The subject's finger-ground distance was 20 cm. The arm lift test on the left horizontally was painful and 
terminally slightly reduced (according to the subject for two weeks). The cranial nerve findings were found to be 
normal on basic examination. The proprioceptive muscle reflexes hardly obtainable on both sides, even with neural 
facilitation. The muscle tone, coarse strength and sensibility was normal on basic examination. The full body 
coordination as well as fine motor coordination overall was normal except for Tandem gait with closed eyes was not
possible due to non-aligned neural facilitation, even on repetition at timely intervals. The feet/lower legs vibration 
was proximal 4/8, distal 2-3/8 on both sides. Overall sensible polyneuropathy, also in the region of the hands. 
Restrictions of the sensibility was present. The subject was also diagnosed with psychophysical exhaustion and 
chronic pain with physical and psychological factors.
Print Time: 12-JAN-2016 02:51 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 7 of 31
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On (b) (6) , the laboratory test results revealed leukocyte count 18.3 /nl, red blood cell count 6.5 /pl, mean cell
volume (MCV) 80 fL, mean cell haemoglobin (MCH) 26 pg, high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol 30 mg/dl, and
lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 321 U/L. On (b) (6) , electrocardiogram revealed no left axis deviation. There 
was a sinus rhythm and heart rate was 60/min. The R wave regression at V1 to V3 leads along with obvious 
reduction in V4 lead was observed. The R/S transition at V5 lead was noted. The changes in ST segment in aVL 
(depression by  less than 0.1 mV) and V1-V2 leads with terminal negative T wave were observed. The QT wave 
duration was 400 msec (relative QT time 103%). The picture was as following anteroseptal infarction. On 
(b) (6) , laboratory investigations revealed haptoglobin 208 mg/dl, LDH 277 U/L, and thyroid stimulating 
hormone (TSH) 4.46 mU/l.
During hospitalization, the physician gradually discontinued Lyrica (pregabalin) therapy. There was no deterioration,
but improvement of the pain symptoms. Irrespective of this, obvious connection of the subject's pains with his 
psychological condition was noted and he was mostly free of symptoms in the inpatient setting. The outcome of the 
event episodes of depression due to chronic pain symptoms was reported as resolving. On (b) (6) , the 
subject was discharged from the hospital in obvious improved psychophysical condition and in a significantly better 
emotional state. The subject was recommended for continuation of the psychotherapy commenced in the hospital 
on an outpatient basis until 20/Sep/2015.
For the reported event of episodes of depression due to chronic pain symptoms, as reported causality with the open
label investigational product AMG 145 and to the device was not provided by the investigator.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RECEIVED ON 25/Sep/2015: The investigator reported that the subject did not have
previous history of depression or depressive episodes. 
The investigator reported that there was not a reasonable possibility that the event episodes of depression due to 
chronic pain symptoms was related open label investigational study drug.