AER 1635035 is a spontaneous case, received on 15/Sep/2015 from a physician via Swissmedic (reference 
number: CHSM201505618) and concerns a female patient (age not reported) who developed gait abnormal nos, 
dizziness aggravated, speech slurred, fine motor skill dysfunction, weakness, fatigue, dizziness, nausea, 
photophobia, acquired hypogammaglobulinemia, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy whilst being treated 
with rituximab (Mabthera).
Concurrent conditions included sharp's syndrome. Concomitant medications included hydroxychloroquine 
(Plaquenil), aspirin (Aspirin Cardio), rabeprazole (Rabeprazole), calcium carbonate/cholecalciferol (Calcimagon-
D3), biotin (Biotine). No medical history or past drugs were reported. 
On an unknown date in 2009, the patient started therapy with intravenous drip rituximab for sharp's syndrome (Off 
label use) 2 g, once in 6 months. In Jul/2014, she developed increasing episodes of paroxysmal vertigo with 
nausea and photophobia. The last two injections of rituximab were on 15/May/2015 and 29/May/2015. As of the end
of (b) (6)  these symptoms became persistent and were accompanied by problems with walking, balance, 
speech, fine motor skills, and by generalised weakness in the arms and legs. She developed progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy, gait abnormal nos, dizziness aggravated, speech slurred, fine motor skill dysfunction, 
weakness, fatigue and acquired hypogammaglobulinemia which led to hospitalisation. Several MRIs (Nuclear 
magnetic resonance imaging) were carried out and showed on (b) (6)  a few non-specific regions of 
hypersignal of the white matter in both hemispheres. On (b) (6)   EEG (Electroencephalogram) was within 
normal limits. On (b) (6)  brain MRI showed several small punctiform hypersignal plaques, in the T2 FLAIR 
sections, in the white matter of both hemispheres, hypersignal of the cerebellar vermis with parenchymal atrophy 
and atrophy of a part of the cerebellar hemispheres (upper half of the cerebellar hemispheres), and slight 
hypersignal on the diffusion sections in the region of the vermis with no clear reduction of the ADC (apparent 
diffusion coefficient) values. No contrast administered. On (b) (6)  cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed fluid 
clear, cells normal, (Immunoglobulin) IgG 18 mg/L (normal range 10-40), IgA 2.6 mg/L (normal range 0.5-6), IgM 
<0.1 mg/L (normal range 0.0.5 [sic: 0.05]-0.8). CSF was positive PCR (polymerase chain reaction) for polyoma 
virus - 28,392 copies/mL, PCR for (herpes simplex virus) HSV1, HSV2, and VZV (varicella-zoster virus) were 
negative. Cryptococcus antigen screen and culture negative. On (b) (6)  lymphocyte typing showed CD19 B-
lymphocytes 0 G/L (normal range 0.1-0.7), CD56 natural killer cells 0.09 G/L (normal range: 0.1-0.9), CD3 
lymphocytes 89% (normal range 54-84%), CD3 T-lymphocytes 0.859 G/L (normal range: 1-2), CD4 lymphocytes 
0.543 G/L (normal range 0.5-2), CD8 lymphocytes 0.289 G/L (normal range: 0.2-1), CD4/CD8 ratio 1.88 (normal 
range 1.5-2.5). On (b) (6)  neuropsychology examination showed within normal limits with slight difficulties in 
executive functions with regard to behaviour; no dysarthria. On (b) (6) , stability of the lesions. CSF testing 
was positive for the JC virus (28,392 copies/mL). Lymphocyte typing did not show any CD19 B-lymphocytes. IgGs 
were low at 6.8 g/L. The EEG was within normal limits. Diagnosis of Progressive Multifocal Leucoencephalopathy 
(PML) with bilateral static and kinetic cerebellar syndrome was retained. Treatment with mirtazapine (Remeron), 30
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 424 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
mg once daily, and mefloquine (Mephaquine), 250 mg once a week, were introduced. Progression was currently 
stable from a neurological point of view. On (b) (6)  brain MRI showed stability of the lesions. Later, therapy 
with rituximab was interrupted.
At the time of this report, gait abnormal nos, dizziness aggravated, speech slurred, fine motor skill dysfunction, 
weakness, fatigue, dizziness, nausea, acquired hypogammaglobulinemia and progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy were persisting and outcome of photophobia was unknown.
The physician did not report a causality between gait abnormal nos, dizziness aggravated, speech slurred, fine 
motor skill dysfunction, weakness, fatigue, dizziness, nausea, photophobia, acquired hypogammaglobulinemia, 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and rituximab.
Physician assessed the events gait abnormal nos, dizziness aggravated, speech slurred, fine motor skill 
dysfunction, weakness, fatigue, dizziness, nausea, photophobia, acquired hypogammaglobulinemia, progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy as disabling/incapacitating and life threatening.
No further information was provided.
This confirmed case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is being expedited per 
Roche/Genentech Enhanced Pharmacovigilance Plan for PML