Medically Significant
A report was received from literature.  Hodel J, Outteryck O, Verclytte S, Deramecourt V, Lacour A, Pruvo J-P, 
Vermersch P, and Leclerc X.  Brain magnetic susceptibility changes in patients with natalizumab-associated 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.  American Journal of Neuroradiology; 27 Aug 2015.  doi: 
10.3174/ajnr.A4436.  This case is in reference to patient number 2, a 48 year old male patient.  The patient was on 
TYSABRI therapy from an unknown date to an unknown date for relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis for a total of 
21 months of exposure.  On an unknown date the patient's cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tested positive for JCV DNA.
The patient had 2 available MRIs that were "at the chronic stage" (dates and results not reported).  The patient did 
not have susceptibility-weighted imaging, the patient did have T2 weighted imaging.  The PML lesions were located 
in the left middle cerebellar peduncle and left frontal; the lesions were adjacent to basal ganglia.  The left frontal 
lesion had low signal intensity within the U-fibers and low signal in the deep gray matter (left lenticular nucleus).
There was low signal deep in the gray matter (left dentate nucleus).  At the time of detection of the susceptibility-
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 420 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
weighted signal abnormality, the patient was stated to be in "chronic" stage.  The Patient had a post-mortem brain 
neuropathic examination that showed astroctic gliosis associated with abundant microglial and macrophage 
infiltrate within the area of cortical low T2 signal intensity previously visible on T2 images.  The macrophages 
contained degraded myelin-filled vacuoles, and there was no visible calcification or hemorrhage.  Review of the 
pathological specimen revealed a loss of distinction between gray and white matter as well as microglial and 
macrophage infiltrate of the cortical neuropile.  The authors assessed causality as related.  The status of TYSABRI 
therapy at the time of death was not reported.