AER 1620990 is a patient support program case, received on 11/Aug/2015 from a consumer via a nurse and later 
by physician via company representative and concerns a 71 year old female patient who developed suspected 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, pain, felt feverish, had soreness in arm, rheumatoid arthritis flare, 
swollen joint count and rheumatoid arthritis getting bad while participating in (b) (6)  and being treated with 
rituximab (Rituxan).
Patient's medical history included fibromyalgia, osteoarthritis and breast cancer in remission 10 years. Concurrent 
condition included high blood pressure. Concomitant medications included golimumab (Simponi), fluticasone 
propionate/salmeterol xinafoate (Advair), folic acid, lisinopril, methotrexate, ipratropium bromide (Atrovent inhaler), 
calcium carbonate, metoprolol tartrate (Apo-metoprolol), salbutamol sulfate (Apo-salvent Inhaler), Apo warfarin, cod
and multivitamins while her past drugs, family history and information about alcohol or tobacco use were not 
reported.
On 07/Jun/15, patient's swollen joint count (SJC) was 12. On 30/Jul/2015, patient received premedication of 
diphenhydramine, paracetamol, methylprednisolone and started intravenous (IV) rituximab infusion 1000 mg on day
1 day 15 for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). On 08/Aug/2015, she developed soreness in upper arm and had it for 3 
days. It was reported that, she had this pain before and it goes from arm to arm and pain increased with wet 
weather and she arrived with a walker. On 11/Aug/2015, the event soreness in arm was improved. On the same 
day, she received her last infusion of rituximab. Later, it was reported that her husband was quite concerned that 
she might have a fatal side effect called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (persistent and permanent 
disability). It was stated that, she had symptoms of severe pain in her head (persistent and permanent disability), 
was not able to wash her hair without being in pain, had been sluggish and feverish and sits in their chair all day 
with her head hanging (sluggish and sits in chair all day with head hanging reported as comanifestation of 
suspected progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy). Her husband was advised to follow up with their 
rheumatologist to seek medical attention in case of some sort of infection. On an unknown date, soreness in upper 
arm was improved. Later, her husband reported that she had RA flares in her shoulders, fingers, ankles and toes 
also had lots of pain due to RA (comanifestation of RA flares: pain). He also stated that, rituximab had worked well 
for the first time and he would like her to be retreated. On 19/Oct/15, her SJC was 04. On 21/Jan/16, her SJC was 
08. Her husband stated that the patient on ice right now as she keeps getting off and on means RA getting bad with
RA flare ups; she was overdue for treatment.
At the time of this report, the outcome of the events progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, pain, feverish and 
swollen joint count was unknown while RA flare and RA getting bad were persisting. Therapy with rituximab was 
maintained.
The reporter did not assess the causal relationship of the events suspected progressive multifocal 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 432 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
leukoencephalopathy, pain, feverish, soreness in upper arm, RA flare, swollen joint count and RA getting bad with 
rituximab.
The company assessed the event feverish as medically significant.
The company assessed the causal relationship of events suspected progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, 
pain and feverish as related while events soreness in upper arm, RA flare, swollen joint count and RA getting bad 
as unrelated with rituximab.
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 23/Sep/2015. Following information was added to the case: source 
identification number (ROC1357513), new primary reporter (consumer), new secondary reporter (nurse),  medical 
history (breast cancer in remission 10 years, fibromyalgia, osteoarthritis, high blood pressure), concomitant 
medications detail (diphenhydramine, acetaminophen, methylprednisolone ongoing) and new events (suspected 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, pain and feverish) were added.
Additional information was received on 19/Jan/2016. The following information was added to the case (source 
identification number: ROC1368798): Secondary reporter (consumer), event (rheumatoid arthritis flare), rituximab 
therapy details (form and last infusion date) and event description updated accordingly.
Additional information was received on 26/Jan/2016. Following information was added to the case: reporter 
narrative were updated (lots of pain due to rheumatoid arthritis) and secondary reporter (consumer) was added.
Additional information received on 02/Feb/2016. Following information added to the case: Source identification 
number updated as ROC1370213. Primary reporter added as physician. Additional events added as swollen joint 
count and rheumatoid arthritis getting bad.
Additional information was received on 08/Feb/2016 (ROC1370821): Event description was updated (her husband 
reported that the patient on ice right now as she keeps getting off and on RA flare ups).