AER 1638727 is a literature - non-interventional study case, received on 21/Sep/2015 and concerns a patient of 
unknown demographics who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy while being enrolled in 
retrospective, phase IV non-interventional, observational study of ofatumumab therapy in heavily pre-treated 
patients with poor-prognosis chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
The diagnosis of CLL was made according to WHO/IWCLL criteria.  Data from patients treated with ofatumumab 
outside phase II or III ofatumumab-based trials were included in the study. The presence of bulky 
lymphadenopathy, fludarabine and alemtuzumab refractoriness was registered as recorded by participating 
investigators.  Severity of adverse events (AEs) was graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for
Adverse Events (v.3.0). One hundred and three patients from 25 centers in Europe were accrued. The median 
number of patients treated in each center was 3 (range 1-15). Data collection started on 30 September 2011 and 
was completed on 24 November 2012. Twenty-seven patients had been previously reported. All patients were 
evaluated on an intention-to-treat basis, independently of the number of cycles of therapy received and whether or 
not all planned therapy was given. Response to therapy was evaluated according to the IWCLL 
recommendations,14 changes occurring in clinical stage16 and modifications in individual parameters. Computed 
tomography (CT) scans were not used to assess disease status.   In most cases, ofatumumab was given according
to the approved prescribing information, i.e. 300 mg ofatumumab for the first infusion and 2000 mg thereafter for 8 
consecutive weekly infusions, followed 4-5 weeks later by 4 monthly infusions every four weeks. Ofatumumab 
premedication was given according to procedures of each participating center. Median number of cycles of 
ofatumumab administered was 9 (range 1-16).  Thirteen patients (13%) received other cytotoxic agents (mainly 
corticosteroids or chlorambucil) along with ofatumumab, 64% received prophylactic antibiotics, 62% antivirals, 17% 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), and 6% erythropoietin.
This case concerns 1 of the 2 patient who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML).
The patient was treated with extensive prior therapy including rituximab, fludarabine and alemtuzumab.  The patient
developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) at 11 months after treatment with ofamtumumab. 
There was insufficient information regarding outcome of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and therapy 
ongoing status of ofamtumumab.
The authors reported that 2 heavily pre-treated patients (with rituximab, fludarabine and alemtuzumab) developed 
PML, a complication known to occur in CLL and well recognized in subjects receiving anti-CD20 monoclonal 
antibodies.
The company considered progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as medically significant.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 441 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Moreno C, Moreno C, Montillo M, Panayiotidis P, Dimou M, Bloor A, Dupuis J, Schuh A,  Norin S, Geisler C, 
Hillmen P, Doubek M, Trneny M, Obrtlikova P, Laurenti L, Stilgenbauer S, Smolej L, Ghia P, Cymbalista F, Jaeger 
U, Stamatopoulos K,  Stavroyianni N, Carrington P, Zouabi H,  Leblond V, Gomez-Garcia J, Rubio M, Marasca R, 
Musuraca G, Rigacci L,  Farina L, Paolini R ,  Pospisilova S, Kimby E,  Bradley C and Montserrat E.
Ofatumumab in poor-prognosis chronic lymphocytic leukemia: a Phase IV, non-interventional, observational study 
from the European Research Initiative on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia. 
Haematologica 2015; 100 (4): 511-516.
This case is cross referenced with AER 1637699 (same literature article).