MedDRA CODING
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
REPORT TYPE:
Initial
COUNTRY OF OCCURANCE
USA
VERBATIM OF REPORTER: 
A 65-yr-old man with a history of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), initially treated with induction chemotherapy 
on a modified BFM regimen including rituximab [850 mg weekly for four total doses completed 3 months prior to 
hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT)] and intrathecal methotrexate, underwent an allogeneic, HLA sibling-
matched HCT, with reduced intensity conditioning consisting of fludarabine and melphalan. Initial post-transplant 
complications included Enterococcus faecalis lumbar disk space infection, as well as acute delayed gastrointestinal
and skin GVHD noted on day +134 post-transplant, treated with oral prednisone (maximum dose 100 mg daily 
tapered and discontinued on day +231), and oral tacrolimus discontinued day +299. Cytomegalovirus viremia was 
detected on day +150 and was treated with intravenous ganciclovir. Bone marrow biopsy on day +109 revealed no 
evidence of leukemia and confirmed donor engraftment. On day +318, a complete blood count revealed an 
absolute lymphocyte count of 2.19 k/microL (normal 0.70 to 4.70 k/microL). The patient`s wife reported on day 
+329 that he was weak and his lower extremities were stiff and ``hard to bend``. Neurological examination revealed
marked spasticity of lower extremities, frequent plantar flexor spasms, and bilateral Babinski signs. He was unable 
to ambulate. MRI of the brain revealed patchy T2/FLAIR hyperintensity in the left corona radiata and centrum 
semiovale white matter suggestive of demyelination. Postgadolinium volumetric T1-weighted imaging showed 
subtle foci of contrast enhancement along the left corona radiata. Examination of the CSF was unrevealing, and 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), cytomegalovirus 
(CMV), human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), Epstein Barr virus (EBV) and JC virus infections were notably negative. 
Brain biopsy of the left frontal lobe was performed. Light microscopy revealed marked gliosis and ground-glass 
intranuclear inclusions in oligodendrocytes. In situ hybridization (ISH) studies performed on paraffin-embedded 
tissue demonstrated JC viral DNA in the nuclei, establishing the diagnosis of Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). The patient quickly progressed, developing quadriparesis and the inability to swallow. 
Following discussions with the patient and his family, comfort care measures were instituted. The patient died on 
day +362, approximately 1 month after symptom onset.
TYPE OF REPORTER AND PATIENT DEMOGRAPHICS:
Information has been received from Literature article Kaufman Gregory P, Aksamit Allen J, Klein Christopher J, Yi 
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 428 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Eunhee S, Delone David R, Litzow Mark R. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy: a rare infectious 
complication following allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). European Journal of Haematology 92 
(1): 83-7, Jan 2014. This case concerns a 65 year old male patient.
A 65 year old male patient.
MEDICAL HISTORY/CONCURRENT CONDITIONS:
The patient is a case of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Patient concomitant condition included hematopoietic cell 
transplantation.
SUSPECTED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS:
Therapy with intrathecal Methotrexate, Fludarabine, Rituximab (850 mg weekly for four total doses completed 3 
months) and Melphalan began on an unknown date and ended on an unknown date (Duration: Unknown) for the 
treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Oral Prednisone (maximum dose 100 mg daily tapered and 
discontinued on day +231) and oral Tacrolimus (discontinued day +299) began on an unknown date and ended on 
an unknown date (Duration: Unknown) for the treatment of GVHD. Identification of Methotrexate and Fludarabine 
Fresenius Kabi Oncology Ltd. was not confirmed (Methotrexate and Fludarabine Manufacturer Unknown).
CONCOMITANT MEDICINAL/THERAPY:
IV Ganciclovir for Cytomegalovirus viremia was given as the concomitant medication.
TIMINGS CONDITIONS AND EVENT DETAILS:
Patient developed Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy following treatment with suspect drugs.
RELEVANT PHYSICAL/LABORATORY VALUE FINDINGS: 
Neurological examination - revealed marked spasticity of lower extremities, frequent plantar flexor spasms, and 
bilateral Babinski signs. 
MRI of the brain - revealed patchy T2/FLAIR hyperintensity in the left corona radiata and centrum semiovale white 
matter suggestive of demyelination. 
Postgadolinium volumetric T1-weighted imaging showed subtle foci of contrast enhancement along the left corona 
radiata.
Examination of the CSF was unrevealing, and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for herpes simplex virus (HSV), 
varicella zoster virus (VZV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), Epstein Barr virus (EBV) and 
JC virus infections were notably negative. 
Light microscopy revealed marked gliosis and ground-glass intranuclear inclusions in oligodendrocytes. 
In situ hybridization (ISH) studies performed on paraffin-embedded tissue demonstrated JC viral DNA in the nuclei, 
establishing the diagnosis of Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML).
CORRECTIVE TREATMENT AND OUTCOME:
No information was given regarding the corrective treatment. The outcome of the case is fatal.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 429 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information