This is a literature report from the United States of America. A 65-year-old male patient developed enterococcal 
faecalis lumbar disk space infection, graft versus host disease in intestine, graft versus host disease in skin and 
cytomegalovirus infection while on therapy with tacrolimus for an unknown indication. The patient also developed 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) after discontinuation of tacrolimus.
The patient's past medical history was not reported. Concurrent medical conditions included acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia. Concomitant medications were not reported. Co-suspect medications included fludarabine and 
melaphalan.
The patient with a history of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), initially treated with induction chemotherapy on a 
modified BFM regimen including rituximab (850 mg weekly for four total doses completed 3 months prior to 
hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) and intrathecal methotrexate, underwent an allogeneic, HLA sibling-
matched HCT, with reduced intensity conditioning consisting of fludarabine and melphalan. Initial post-transplant 
complications included Enterococcus faecalis lumbar disk space infection, as well as acute delayed gastrointestinal
and skin GVHD noted on day +134 post-transplant, treated with oral prednisone (maximum dose 100 mg daily 
tapered and discontinued on day +231), and oral tacrolimus discontinued day +299. Cytomegalovirus viremia was 
detected on day +150 and was treated with intravenous ganciclovir. Bone marrow biopsy on day +109 revealed no 
evidence of leukemia and confirmed donor engraftment. On day +318, a complete blood count revealed an 
absolute lymphocyte count of 2.19 k/uL (normal 0.70-4.70 k/uL). The patient's wife reported on day +329 that he 
was weak and his lower extremities were stiff and hard to bend. Neurological examination revealed marked 
spasticity of lower extremities, frequent plantar flexor spasms, and bilateral Babinski signs. The patient was unable 
to ambulate. MRI of the brain revealed patchy T2/FLAIR hyperintensity in the left corona radiata and centrum 
semiovale white matter suggestive of demyelination. Postgadolinium volumetric T1-weighted imaging showed 
subtle foci of contrast enhancement along the left corona radiata. Examination of the CSF was unrevealing, and 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), cytomegalovirus 
(CMV), human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and JC virus infections were notably negative. 
Brain biopsy of the left frontal lobe was performed. Light microscopy revealed marked gliosis and ground-glass 
intranuclear inclusions in oligodendrocytes. In situ hybridization (ISH) studies performed on paraffin-embedded 
tissue demonstrated JC viral DNA in the nuclei, establishing the diagnosis of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). The patient quickly progressed, developing quadriparesis and the inability to swallow. 
Following discussions with the patient and his family, comfort care measures were instituted. The patient died on 
day +362, approximately 1 month after symptom onset.
Literature source: Kaufman GP, Aksamit AJ, Klein CJ, Yi ES, Delone DR, Litzow MR. Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy: a rare infectious complication following allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). 
Eur J Haematol. 2014;92(1):83-7.
Print Time: 13-JUN-2016 09:36 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 437 of 457
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information