Based on the additional information received on 20-Oct-2015 from a patient, the case type was updated from 
unsolicited to solicited and company causality was updated from possible to not associated.
Initial information regarding this solicited case from United States received on 09-Oct-2015 from a patient via the 
Patient Support Program (b) (6) .
Study ID: (b) (6) (Patient ID: (b) (6) )
This case concerns a 69 year old female patient who contemplated taking her life, experienced many neurological 
symptoms, agitated and negative symptoms an unknown duration and flu like symptoms one week, increased 
depression, nausea, body aches, weakness, pain in her back, shortness of breath and numbness in both hands 
and feet few days after receiving first alirocumab (Praluent). Other suspect drug included rivaroxaban (Xarelto).
Patiet was suffering from depression. No past drugs or concomitant medications were reported.
On 05-Sep-2015 patient received treatment with alirocumab at a dose of 75mg every other week delivered via 
prefilled pen (lot/batch number and expiry date: unknown) for pure hypercholesterolemia and old myocardial 
infarction. On an unknown date in 2015, patient also received treatment with rivaroxaban (dose, form, route, 
frequency, lot/batch number and expiration date: Unknown)
Patient stated that she was dis-continuing this drug. According to patient after doctor gave the first dose, patient 
had many negative symptoms (date: 2015; latency: unknown). Patient's physician assured patient that these 
symptoms did not pertain to this drug. According to patient, patient was in a critical situation. Patient had been back
to doctor and he assured patient, once again that patient's symtoms had nothing to do with this drug. Patient had 
many neurological symptoms as well (date: 2015; latency: unknown). According to patient, anti-depressant became
totally ineffective. Patient was totally agitated (date: 2015; latency: unknown) and contemplated taking her life (date:
Print Time: 13-JAN-2016 09:47 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 7 of 34
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
2015; latency: unknown). 1 week after 1st injection she started gradually having flu like symptoms (date: Sep-2015)
along with increased depression, nausea, body aches, weakness, pain in back (spinal area), confusion, shortness 
of breath, numbness in both hands and feet (date: Sep-2015; latency: few days).  Patient had not told HCP due to 
being mad at him.  
Action taken: No action taken for alirocumab and unknown for rivaroxaban
Corrective treatment: antidepressant for "contemplated taking my life", many neurological symptoms and agitated.
Event Outcome: Unknown for contemplated taking my life, many neurological symptoms, agitated, negative 
symptoms and not recovered for rest of the events
Seriousness criteria: Important medical event for "contemplated taking my life"
Reporter causality: Unknown
Company causality: Not associated
Based on the additional information received on 20-Oct-2015 from a patient, the case type was updated from 
unsolicited to solicited and company causality was updated from possible to not associated. New events "increased
depression, nausea, body aches, weakness, pain in her back, shortness of breath and numbness in both hands 
and feet" were added. Event verbatim, outcome was updated for "flu like symptoms".  Action taken was updated. 
Therapy details updated. Indication added. Medical history was added. Patient's age, gender was captured. 
Narrative amended accordingly.