IND SAFETY REPORT
This case, BMRN case number US-2015-107686, is a report from the UNITED STATES, referring to a 4 Year-old 
Male subject (ID # (b) (6) ) participating in the (b) (6)
(b) (6)   An investigator reported the event.
The subject's past medical history included pyrexia (during infusion).  The subject's concurrent conditions included 
Mucopolysaccharidosis VI.  No allergies were reported.  Pre-medications prior to Naglazyme infusion included 
unspecified anti-histamines and anti-pyretics.
On 07-MAY-2013, the subject initiated treatment with Naglazyme (1 mg/kg, qw, Intravenous).  The lot numbers for 
Naglazyme were L061381 and L061349. 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 88 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On unspecified date in (b) (6)  reported as prior to the most recent infusion, the subject was admitted to the 
hospital so that baseline and post infusion laboratory tests could be drawn to determine the source of the subject's 
fevers.  On (b) (6)  at 13:00, a blood culture was positive for an unspecified organism.  At 18:00, the 
Naglazyme infusion was started.  On (b) (6)  at 02:30, during hospitalization, the subject experienced fever 
(exact temperature was not reported).  The second blood culture was then drawn and was positive with a different 
organism than the first culture.  A third culture was positive with the same organism as the first culture, but not the 
second culture.  A specific organism was not reported.  It was confirmed that the subject experienced a bacterial 
infection in his mediport.  It was reported that "the organism needs to be submitted."  A moderate central line 
infection (DEVICE RELATED INFECTION) was reported.  It was reported that the fevers were felt to be around the 
time of infusion due to the fluid going into the subject's port.  Plan of treatment included unspecified intravenous 
(IV) antibiotics.  Treatment with Naglazyme was reported to be interrupted/dose modified due to the event.
The outcome of the event was reported as Not Recovered/Not Resolved.
This case was also considered a Medical Product Complaint.  Product complaint number PR 72284 was assigned 
by BioMarin Product Complaint.
The investigator assessed the event of DEVICE RELATED INFECTION as possibly related to treatment with 
Naglazyme. No other etiological factors were reported. 
Additional information has been requested and, if received, the report will be updated.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RECEIVED 06-NOV-2015:
This case refers to a 29-month-old subject (previously reported as 4-year-old).
The subject's pre-medications included ibuprofen, paracetamol, and diphenhydramine hydrochloride.
Naglazyme dose was updated to 15 mg.
The subject's mother stated that during the subject's past three infusions, the subject had a fever afterwards 
ranging from 100.3 to 103 degrees Fahrenheit (reference range not reported) which was treated with ibuprofen. 
The fever resolved within 24 hours. During the fourth Naglazyme infusion, paracetamol was added to the subject's 
pre-medications. At this time, the subject developed a low-grade fever (exact temperature not reported). On (b)(6)
 (previously reported as (b) (6) ), the subject was hospitalized for observation during infusions. On
(b) (6)  at 6:30 AM, the subject's blood cultures drawn on admission from his mediport was positive for gram
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 89 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
positive coccobacillus. The subject's neutrophil and lymphocyte count was elevated (exact value and reference 
ranges not reported). His C-reactive protein (CRP) was within normal range of .16 to .46 mg/dl from the time of 
admission until the occurrence of fever. At 8:00 AM, the subject's temperature was 38.1 (unit and reference range 
not reported) and blood cultures were sent from his mediport and peripheral cultures were drawn. Treatment 
included cefepime, meropenem, and ethanol locks (50% for four hour dwell time). The action taken with Naglazyme
was updated to no change from treatment interrupted/dose modified.
On 06-NOV-2015, the subject received his Naglazyme infusion and experienced a spike in his temperature (exact 
temperature not reported) like in the past. The nurse discussed this issue with the prescribing physician who was 
going to discuss the possible removal of his port. The prescribing physician was still concerned that there was still 
an infection in his line.
The event was also considered medically significant.
The investigator assessed the event of DEVICE RELATED INFECTION as related (previously reported as possibly 
related) to treatment with Naglazyme.
Additional information has been requested and, if received, the report will be updated.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RECEIVED ON 13-JAN-2016:
BioMarin Quality Assurance reviewed the batch files and determined that the lot was manufactured, tested, and 
released in compliance with cGMP and applicable SOPs.  All in-process and released tests specifications passed.
There was no specific root cause identified with this complaint.  BioMarin will continue to monitor for complaints of 
this nature.
Additional information has been requested and, if received, the report will be updated.