This is a literature report from the United States of America. A 09-year-old female patient experienced nausea, 
vomiting, diarrhea, rash erythematous, muscle twitching, headache, abdominal pain upper, fatigue, vision blurred, 
mydriasis, agitation, mental status changes, confusional state, disorientation, dry skin, flushing, body temperature 
increased, disorganised speech, visual  hallucination, delirium, clonus, muscle rigidity, hyperreflexia, sinus 
tachycardia, electrocardiogram qt prolonged,  serotonin syndrome, dysarthria, platelet count increased, neutrophil 
count increased, lymphocyte count decreased, dry mouth, abasia, skin discolouration, bipolar disorder, activation 
syndrome, anxiety pruritus and anticholinergic syndrome while on therapy with sertraline for anxiety and risperidone
for bipolar risk.
The patient past medical history included 3 recent hospitalizations for prolonged gastroenteritis, dehydration, 
rotavirus, and lactose intolerance. Concurrent conditions included anxiety, bipolar disorder, nausea and diarrhea. 
Concomitant medications included acetaminophen, omeprazole, ondansetron, montelukast, melatonin, sucralfate 
and nitazoxanide. Co-suspects included hyoscyamine and diphenhydramine.
This patient with a history of extensive treatment for nausea and diarrhea had been recently hospitalized 3 times for
prolonged gastroenteritis, dehydration, rotavirus, and lactose intolerance. Other than lactose intolerance, no 
medical explanation was found, and symptoms were attributed to anxiety. The patient was evaluated in the 
outpatient clinic for anxiety and reported numerous symptoms, including skin biting, compulsive use of lotion after 
washing her hands, scrunching her neck and head, insomnia, and hoarding. She was started on sertraline 6.25 mg,
and at follow-up 2 weeks later, she reported no adverse effects and was continued on the current dose with a plan 
to increase to 12.5 mg in 2 weeks. At that visit, hyoscyamine 0.125 mg for diarrhea was reported as a new 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 94 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
medicine, in addition to her regimen of omeprazole, sucralfate, and montelukast. 
Two days after the follow-up clinic visit, the patient developed nausea, emesis, and diarrhea, andwas subsequently 
hospitalized for 4 days. During the hospitalization, she developed a red rash, similar in appearance to pityriasis 
rosea, on her back. During this time, current medications included hyoscyamine 0.125 mg, ondansetron 4 mg, 
acetaminophen 320 mg, omeprazole 20 mg, montelukast 5 mg, and sertraline 6.25 mg. Sucralfate was 
discontinued on patient's request. 
After the hospital discharge, sertraline was increased, as previously planned, to 12.5 mg. The rash continued, and 
the patient began displaying muscle twitching and experiencing a headache. Three days after discharge from 
hospital, the patient's mother gave her approximately 25 mg of diphenhydramine for treatment of the rash. Because
of stomach cramps, the patient often took hyoscyamine twice per day. Patient continued taking ondansetron, 
omeprazole, and montelukast. She also completed a course of nitazoxanide for possible infectious causes of 
diarrhea.
Four days after discharge, the patient was on an outing and seemed fatigued and, according to her mother, "out of 
sorts". In addition, the patient complained of not being able to see. The patient later told her grandmother that she 
was having stomach pain and was given hyoscyamine, which is noted to potentially exacerbate blurry vision. After a
nap, she woke up with hugely dilated pupils, which later appeared to be between 7 and 10 mm dilated. She was 
agitated and was taken to the emergency department (ED), where she displayed altered mental status, confusion, 
disorientation, mydriasis, dry and flushing skin, temperature of 37.6 C, and nonsensical speech. In addition, she 
was experiencing visual hallucinations and delirium. Opsoclonus, rigidity, or lower extremity hyperreflexia were not 
observed. Per electrocardiogram, the patient exhibited borderline prolonged QT (0.463 seconds) and sinus 
tachycardia (pulse rate, 160 beats per minute). Doctors attributed her symptoms to serotonin syndrome, and she 
was given a midazolam drip as well as cyproheptadine. Because she remained combative despite administration of 
agents typical for the treatment of serotonergic toxicity, she was transferred to the pediatric intensive care unit 
(PICU). In the PICU, her lack of cooperation, as well as pupils nonreactive with dilation of 5 mm bilaterally, 
continued. She also continued to hallucinate, lack orientation to person or place, and display slurred speech. 
Cardiac monitor indicated that sinus tachycardia continued. Laboratory results indicated elevated platelet count 
(462 th/microL), elevated neutrophil count (56.2 percent), and low lymphocyte count (34.2 percent). Urine 
immunoassay for common drugs of abuse was negative. Pediatric intensive care unit monitoring continued, with 
intravenous fluids at 1.5 times maintenance, midazolam infusion, cyproheptadine as needed, famotidine, and 
discontinuation of sertraline, omeprazole, acetaminophen, and montelukast. In addition, the patient was not 
permitted to have food. The next day, the patient was "beet red" and complained of dry mouth. Despite elimination 
of sertraline, symptoms attributed to serotonin syndrome persisted. 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 95 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
After 30 hours, the patient could still not see or walk. Upon decreasing the midazolam drip, the patient became very
combative, saying things such as "don't get near me," and her mother noted that she was "acting like she was 
possessed." However, upon discontinuation of midazolam, she regained ability to ambulate. With combative 
symptoms, dry mouth, and skin discoloration persisting, as well as a new development of clonus, an advanced 
registered nurse practitioner (ARNP) interceded, and with the patient's mother's insistence, a psychiatrist was 
consulted. Computed tomography scan of the head without contrast was ordered; the results of which seemed 
normal. Psychiatry suggested bipolar risk, an activation adverse effect, and the ARNP prescribed risperidone and to
continue melatonin, ondansetron, and famotidine. Four days after admission, the patient was vomiting and had 
diarrhea. She was still taking hyoscyamine and diphenhydramine and was also given promethazine for nausea and 
emesis while in the hospital.
At time of discharge, the patient was oriented and normotensive, with no pyrexia or tachycardia. Her blurred vision, 
nausea, and emesis persisted at discharge, as well as her dry, warm, pink skin. Home medications were same at 
discharge as at admission, with famotidine substituted for omeprazole and minus sertraline. At clinic follow-up 1 
week after discharge, the patient denied stomach aches, nausea, or emesis with continuation of the lactose free 
diet. Blurred vision and clonus were slow to resolve. Her mood seemed stable but more anxious. Pruritus and 
complaints of leg itching were reported. Because of concerns that her persisting symptoms were due to 
anticholinergic toxicity, hyoscyamine and diphenhydramine were discontinued. Risperidone was changed to 0.125 
mg every morning and 0.25 mg every evening, with a plan to discontinue the morning dose in 1 week. With 
cessation of the anticholinergic agents, the patient's symptoms that prompted her hospitalization gradually remitted.
Literature referece:
Gerardi DM, Murphy TK, Toufexis M, Hanks C. Serotonergic or Anticholinergic Toxidrome: Case Report of a 9-
Year-Old Girl. Pediatr Emerg Care. 2015.
Gerardi DM, Murphy TK, Toufexis M, Hanks C. Serotonergic or Anticholinergic Toxidrome: Case Report of a 9-
Year-Old Girl. Pediatr Emerg Care. 2015;31(12):846-50.
Follow-up information was updated from full text article on 28 December 2015.
Additional/New information: Literature citation was updated.