Initial and follow-up information(07-DEC-2015) has been received from a pharmacist, lawyer and physician 
concerning a patient of unknown age and gender. Information including the patient's primary/concomitant diseases 
and medical history was not obtained. There was no concomitant medication reported.
On an unspecified date, the patient was placed on therapy with suvorexant (BELSOMRA)(dose, frequency , lot# 
and expiration date were not provided) orally for unknown indication.
On an unspecified date, the patient took suvorexant (BELSOMRA) which was prescribed at hospital A.
On an unspecified date, the patient bought suvorexant (BELSOMRA) on the internet and took approximately 100 
tablets of prescribed suvorexant (BELSOMRA) intentionally (the reporting lawyer considered this as intentional 
overdose) and was transferred to hospital B by an ambulance after losing consciousness. The patient was 
hospitalized.
On an unspecified date, after taking the large amount of suvorexant (BELSOMRA), the patient developed memory 
deficit for 2 to 3 days and on an unspecified date (2 to 3 days later), the patient developed an unspecified event (the
detail was unclear) at hospital B. 
At the time of the report, the outcome of the "unspecified event", hospitalization after loss of consciousness" and 
"memory deficit for 2 to 3 days was unknown.
Reporter's comment: not provided.
The reporting pharmacist considered that the "event (unspecified)" was serious due to hospitalization. The reporting
lawyer considered that the "unspecified event" and hospitalization after loss of consciousness were serious due to 
hospitalization, and did not assess the seriousness of memory deficit for 2 to 3 days.
The reporting pharmacist did not assess the relationship of "unspecified event" to suvorexant (BELSOMRA) and 
the reporting lawyer did not assess the causality of the "unspecified event", hospitalization after loss of 
consciousness and memory deficit for 2 to 3 days to suvorexant (BELSOMRA).
Additional information is not expected as no further information is available.
Reporter and narrative were updated.