Information has been received from a physician via a field representative referring to a 53 year old male patient with
high stress anxiety. 
On an unknown date the patient started therapy with suvorexant(BELSOMRA) tablet, (10 mg, frequency unknown), 
orally for insomnia for one week and then after a week the dosage was increased to 15 mg. Concomitant therapy 
included ezetimibe(ZETIA), which was prior to starting the suvorexant(BELSOMRA). Three to four weeks later(on 
an unknown date), the patient committed suicide by hanging himself. It was unknown if autopsy was done. The 
patient had a heightened stress level since an unknown date, which included divorce, and caring for an adult 
special needs child. The causality was not reported. 
Upon internal review, the event of completed suicide was considered to be other medically significant event.
Follow up information has been from the physician on 22-NOV-2015. The patient had no drug allergy and no other 
medical history. On 05-OCT-2015, the patient took suvorexant (BELSOMRA) (lot # 435330, expiration date October
2017) with dose form 10mg, 1 tablet, QHS and then from 12-OCT-2015, patient took suvorexant (BELSOMRA) with
dose form 15mg 1 tablet, QHS. Subsequently, from an unknown date in October the patient change the dose to 
dose form 20 mg, 1 tablet, QHS. The patient was not hospitalized, did not experience life threatening, persistent or 
significant disability or required medical/surgical intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed. No treatment 
drug has been given to the patient. The patient was found dead(hanging) at home by his family in 2015. The cause 
of death was reported as hanging himself (suicide). The outcome of heightened stress level(started in 
approximately 2015) was not recovered.
Follow up information was received on 30-NOV-2015. On 11-NOV-2015, a phone call was placed to the physician. 
The receptionist had answered the phone call and stated that the physician was unavailable. The physician was out
of the office until 16-NOV-2015. A message was left with the receptionist requesting that the physician return the 
phone call.
On 30-NOV-2015, a phone call was again placed to the physician but he was unavailable. The phone was 
transferred to a medical assistant who stated that there was no additional information available on this patient.
Additional information is not expected as no additional information was available.
The reporter information and narrative were updated.