This non-serious spontaneous report from the United States received on 04-NOV-2015 by a Genetic Counselor 
describes the occurrence of Infusion related reaction of Feeling hot and Vomiting, Pyrexia, Irritability in a 2 year-old 
male patient of Other ethnicity (Black and Hispanic) administered Elaprase (IDURSULFASE) for 
Mucopolysaccharidosis II.
The past medical history for the patient included: Tracheomalacia. The concurrent medical history for the patient 
included: Asthma, Atrial septal defect, Pulmonary valve stenosis, Sleep apnoea syndrome, Mineral 
supplementation, Hepatomegaly, Lordosis, Congenital osteodystrophy, Macrocephaly. The patient had no known 
drug allergies. The patient procedure history included: Central venous catheterisation, Myringotomy, Laryngoscopy. 
The family history included: Cardiac disorder (heart defect) and Diabetes mellitus (diabetic shock) in a father. 
Concomitant medications included: Tylenol (PARACETAMOL), FLUTICASONE, SALBUTAMOL, 
LEVOSALBUTAMOL HYDROCHLORIDE, MULTIVITAMINS PLUS IRON (FERROUS SULFATE, VITAMINS NOS),
HYDROCORTISONE, Nexium (ESOMEPRAZOLE MAGNESIUM), EPIPEN Jr (EPINEPHRINE), Benadryl 
(DIPHENHYDRAMINE HYDROCHLORIDE). 
The patient commenced treatment with Elaprase on 18-NOV-2014, the dose was 12 mg, 1x/week.
The patient developed the following adverse events: Infusion related reaction of Feeling hot and Vomiting, Pyrexia 
started on 03-NOV-2015 and Irritability described as Fussiness on 04-NOV-2015. On 03-NOV-2015 the patient felt 
warm and vomited x2 the evening of his infusion. As treatment, the patient was given Sprite and Tylenol 
(PARACETAMOL) and the events resolved. On 04-NOV-2015, the patient had a reported temperature of 97.4 
axillary in the morning and at 2:00 pm the patient again felt warm with a reported temperature of 105 axillary. The 
Vomiting resolved on 03-NOV-2015, the events of Pyrexia and Irritability resolved on 04-NOV-2015. The outcome 
of Infusion related reaction of Feeling hot was not recovered.
The action taken with the primary suspect therapy Elaprase was dose not changed. 
The causality was assessed by a health professional for the events of Irritability, Pyrexia, Vomiting as Not Related.
The infusion related reaction of Feeling hot was not assessed to Elaprase.
The events of Infusion related reaction of Feeling hot and Vomiting, Pyrexia and Irritability were considered non-
serious.
The following laboratory and/or diagnostic tests were performed:
Test name: Thermometry (Range: Low-Unknown  , High-Unknown  )
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 103 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
- Test Date: 04-NOV-2015
  Test Results: 97.4 
  Notes: morning
- Test Date: 04-NOV-2015
  Test Results: 105 
  Notes: at 2pm
Additional significant follow-up information was received on 05-JAN-2016. The patient medical history, product 
dosing regimen and event of Irritability was added; the event term of body temperature increased was changed to 
Fever; causality assessment was changed and the narrative was updated to reflect the additional information 
provided.