Initial information regarding this unsolicited case from United States was received on 23-Nov-2015 from a nurse 
and the patient's husband and live follow up was also received on the same date.
This case concerns a 60-year-old female patient who committed suicide after (b) (6)  days, experienced depression 
worsened, more depressed, was agitated 3 days after; anxiety; had frustration an unspecified duration after 
receiving alirocumab (Praluent).
Medical history included myocardial infarction, depression and seasonal affective disorder. The patient was taking 
an antidepressant, duloxetine hydrochloride (Cymbalta) in past. In Jan-2015, they went to Florida and she felt good 
and stopped duloxetine hydrochloride in Jan-15.  
The patient began treatment with alirocumab injection on 18-Sep-2015 at a dose of 75mg every other week (route, 
lot/batch number and expiry date: unknown) delivered via alirocumab prefilled pen for hereditary 
hypercholesterolemia. 
It was reported that on an unknown date in Sep-2015, the patient was agitated and depressed three days after 
(latency) each injection, but was "back to normal" thereafter. The patient's husband stated that three days after 
taking the medication, alirocumab, the patient would become more depressed.
She had no signs of depression all summer. They recently ( (b) (6) ) moved to (b) (6) (b) (6) from  and 
just had a (b) (6) . On Friday, 13-Nov-2015, the patient's husband gave his wife her alirocumab injection.  
The husband stated about 3-4 days after her last few injections his wife had times of anxiety and frustration (onset: 
2015, latency: few days), she was unsettled and agitated and then in a few days she would be fine. They flew to (b)  
(b) (6) (6)
 to see their (b) (6)  and while there his wife took her life. The husband stated there were no signs on 
the flight to (b) (6) , his wife was making very forward thinking statements about plans to travel in the future.  
(b) (6)
and the patient rifled (b) (6)  and 
found his gun. On 16-Nov-2015, the patient took her life. The patient took the gun (b) (6)  and shot 
herself. Autopsy details were unknown. The patient's husband attributed the patient's suicide to alirocumab.  
According to patient's husband, it was just 11 days after the (b) (6)
The patient's husband, searched online and found a website named "Cholesterol truth", that was a 
website founded by attorneys for statin users. 
Action taken: Not applicable, the patient took the last dose on 13-Nov-2015.
Outcome: fatal for had committed suicide; 
not recovered for depression worsened, more depressed, anxiety, frustration and agitated.
Print Time: 13-JAN-2016 09:47 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 20 of 34
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Additional information was received on 24-Nov-2015: therapy start date updated and stop date added. Medical 
history "myocardial infarction" added. Narrative amended accordingly