A non-serious spontaneous case from the United States was received by MedCommunications Ltd. (local reference
no. HZN15-03423) on 01-Dec-2015.
A mother reported on her 14-month-old daughter (weight: 20 Ibs/9.07 kg) who was taking ACTIMMUNE 10  g three
times weekly for an unknown indication. The mother stated that lately the patient had been falling a lot, her leg gave
out and she fell and the mother wondered if it was based on ACTIMMUNE. Bactrim (sulfamethoxazole and 
trimethoprim), itraconazole, Tylenol (acetaminophen), and ibuprofen were reported as concomitant medications. 
The patient's mother stated that the patient vomited the itraconazole and she had followed up with the doctor 
concerning this issue. According to the mother, the doctor told her to continue with itraconazole and if vomited to 
give the dose again. She mentioned that the patient would have an appointment with the doctor on 17-Dec-2015 
and she would discuss the issue. The outcome was reported as unknown. The mother denied patient having 
injection site issues and as per training she rotated injection sites on arms and thighs. Management of flu like 
symptoms, analgesic prior to injection, and follow up were reviewed with the patient's mother. No permission was 
granted to contact the patient's caregiver or his health care professional. No further information was provided.
Follow up information was received by MedCommunications Ltd. on 21-Dec-2015.
On 21-Dec-2015, the mother stated that her daughter had an appointment with her doctor on 17-Dec-2015 and her 
ACTIMMUNE dose was decreased to 5 g three times a week. The patient had been waking up in the middle of the
night crying, and  holding her head . According to the mother, the patient was falling during the day, had drowsy 
eyes, and her speech was slurred. The mother reported that she had injected 5  g of ACTIMMUNE and her 
daughter did wake up crying but was not  holding head  and was fine the next day. No further information was 
provided. The Clinical Nurse Educator would follow up with the patient.
Follow up information was received by MedCommunications Ltd. (local reference no. HZN16-00499) on 09-Feb-
The patient's mother stated that she had an appointment on 17-Dec-2015. The dose of ACTIMMUNE was lowered 
from 10  g to 5 g three times a week and syringes were changed from 29 gauge to 30 gauge. The mother stated 
that the patient was doing great, slept through injections. She stated that she premedicated the patient with Tylenol 
(acetaminophen) and sometimes her daughter would cry after injection. She stated when dose of ACTIMMUNE had
been 10  g and needle size 29, the patient would cry often and wake up crying holding her head. She stated that 
she also had a "well baby check" on 29-Dec-2015. The patient was also on Bactrim generic (sulfamethoxazole and 
trimethoprim) and Sporanox (itraconazole). The mother agreed to nurse visit. 
Follow up information was received by MedCommunications Ltd. (local reference no. HZN16-00595) on 17-Feb-
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 108 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The patient was on ACTIMMUNE for the indication of chronic granulomatous disease (CGD). The nurse stated that
the patient was doing fine and was normal. The nurse stated that the mother did not mention any medical history to 
her. The mother also could not provide a batch number or expiration date. 
Follow up information was received by MedCommunications Ltd. (local reference no. HZN15-03423) on 24-Mar-
The mother stated that the patient was doing great and had no more symptoms. The patient had a history of 
allergies. She used albuterol as needed.