This prospective baby registry report from a healthcare professional was received by UCB on 26-NOV-2015. 
This case concerns a neonate patient from the United States, whose mother was enrolled in the study(b) (6)  
((b) (6) ).
The Mother's history included: ankylosing spondylitis, transfusion, renal disorder and urinary tract infection.
The Mother's drug history included: Humira.
The Mother's concomitant medications included: Unisom, Vitamin B6, Vitafol, Prenatal Vitamins, Probiotics Nos, 
Metronidazole, Magnesium, Procardia, Progesterone, Magnesium Sulfate, Betamethasone, Flu vaccin and TDAP 
vaccine.
The mother's last menstrual period was unknown. 
On 04-Sep-2015, the patient's mother started the first dose of certolizumab pegol at 1 shot every 2 weeks (twice 
monthly) for ankylosing spondylitis and rheumatoid arthritis and neonate was exposed via transplacental route (drug
exposure in utero) and continued till 06-Oct-2015.
On (b) (6)  patient's mother had emergency room visit for MOB bleeding. 
On (b) (6)  patient's mother had emergency room visit for MOB spotting. 
From (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  patient's mother had hospitalization for preterm labor contraction and again 
from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)
From (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  patient's mother had hospitalization for preterm labor and spotting.
On (b) (6)  the mother delivered a baby at 29.6 gestational weeks (premature birth), with weight 1.561 kg, 
Apgar scores 8/8. 
At the time of this report, outcome of the event premature birth was unknown and therapy with certolizumab pegol 
was discontinued.
Reporter causality: Not provided. 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 87 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Follow up report received from a healthcare professional was received by UCB on 27-Jan-2016. 
On (b) (6)  the patient (baby) had swallowing issues leading to a vasovagal response that caused patient to 
stop breathing and baby was hospitalized.
Twelve hours after 2 month vaccine. From (b) (6)  through (b) (6)  the baby was hospitalized for a low 
heart rate and oxygen desaturation. Pediatrician indicated that symptoms could had been due to apnea (onset 
date- in (b) (6) ), prematurity, milk aspiration or a reaction to the vaccines (since an unknown date). The baby 
was seen by physician (ENT) but no diagnosis was given. Pediatrician recommended change in formula and the 
baby was doing better. 
At the time of report, the outcome of event had swallowing issues, vasovagal response, stop breathing, apnea, milk
aspiration and reaction to the vaccines was unknown. 
It was unknown if the reporter considered the event to be related to certolizumab pegol.
Follow up information was received by UCB from the health care professional on 18-Feb-2016.
On 22-Dec-2015, an ultrasound was performed which noted the following: subtle findings compatible with early 
nephrocalcinosis (congenital anomaly) and Left grade 1 unilateral mild hydronephrosis.
At the time of report, the outcome of the events of early nephrocalcinosis and mild hydronephrosis was unknown.
Reporter's causality assessment: unavailable for early nephrocalcinosis and mild hydronephrosis.
Associated case number: 2015038372 (Mother case)