Initial information regarding this unsolicited case was received from United States on 30-Nov-2015 from a 
consumer (patient's daughter).
This case involved a 63 years old adult male patient whose blood sugar was "161" in the morning, it was unsure if 
the patient felt like fainting or actually fainted/ fainted same day after, had rash on leg, one of his legs was turning 
purple an unknown duration after and experienced bleeding from the nose, died 2 days after receiving treatment 
with alirocumab (Praluent).
No past drugs, medical history or concurrent conditions were reported.
On 18-Nov-2015, the patient started therapy with alirocumab injection (dose, route, frequency, indication, lot/batch 
number and expiry date: unknown) delivered via alirocumab prefilled pen (concomitant device).
As per the patient's blood sugar log, the patient blood sugar was "161" in the morning on 18-Nov-2015 (latency: 
same day). It was unsure whether this reading was before or after alirocumab administration. The patient's 
daughter stated that the patient wrote "15" next to the 161 (units not reported), however was unsure if that was 
referring to insulin or alirocumab. The patient was using insulin glargine (Lantus) and insulin lispro (Humalog) (both 
concomitant medications) for his blood sugar. The patient's blood sugar decreased to 106 around lunch time on 18-
Nov-2015, and patient wrote "faint" and "OJ and hard candy" next to that. The patient's daughter was unsure if the 
patient felt like fainting or actually fainted (onset: 18-Nov-2015, latency: same day). The patient's neighbour 
informed the patient's daughter that the patient had a rash on his leg (onset and latency: unknown), however the 
patient's daughter was unsure which leg the rash was on. The patient's daughter stated that the patient passed 
away in the morning on (b) (6) (b)  (latency:(6)  days). She reports that she does not know the cause of death and 
did not get an autopsy done because they said there was no foul play. She reports that he was bleeding from his 
nose, and he was found in the bathroom where he was believed to be taking his heart medicine at the time. She 
reports that he received his first and only dose of alirocumab on 18-Nov-2015 at lunch time and was somewhat 
irritated that he took it at home and that the doctor did not have him take it at his office for the first dose. She states 
that her father kept a log and believed he went into insulin shock on 18-Nov-2015 because he had logged 106 in his
log and that he fainted and had to take hard candy and use OJ. She also reports that at the time one of his legs 
was turning purple. Someone saw him in the apartment and told him that he needed to call an ambulance 
concerning his leg but he said they were crazy. She reports that he was found in the bathroom on (b) (6) , but
she feels that he died on (b) (6)  because he had stopped filling out his log. 
Action taken: not applicable
Print Time: 12-JAN-2016 04:52 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 15 of 35
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Corrective treatment: hard candy, oj (orange juice) for faint; Not reported for rest of the events.
Outcome: fatal (death), unknown for one of his legs was turning purple" and "bleeding from the nose; not 
recovered/ not resolved for other events
Seriousness criteria: Patient died (death).
Additional information was received from the patient's daughter on 11-Dec-2015: Event term updated from "unsure 
if the patient felt like fainting or actually fainted" to "unsure if the patient felt like fainting or actually fainted/ fainted". 
Event of "one of his legs was turning purple" and "bleeding from the nose" added. Corrective for faint added. 
Therapy stop date updated to 18-Nov-2015. Autospy updated from unknown to no. Clinical course updated and text
was updated accordingly.