This spontaneous report was received from literature
Stone D, Ombrello A, Almeida De Jesus A, Hoffmann P, Jones A, R G, et al. Use of TNF inhibitors in the treatment 
of PAPA syndrome. Pediatric Rheumatology 28-Sep-2015;13(suppl 1):138.  It was presented in 8th International 
Congress of Familial Mediterranean Fever and Systemic Auto inflammatory Diseases, Dresden, Germany; from 30-
SEP-2015 to 03-OCT-2015.
The brand name of Infliximab was not reported. It was assumed to be J and J drug for reporting purposes. This aim
of the study was to report observations on the treatment of 4 severely affected PAPA (pyogenic arthritis, pyoderma 
gangrenosum and acne) syndrome patients with extensive pyoderma gangrenosum lesions. Medical records from 
4 patients with PAPA syndrome and severe pyoderma gangrenosum skin lesions were reviewed. The photos of 
lesions were taken periodically. C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) were followed. 
This report concerns a 08-year-old female patient. The patient's weight and height were not reported. The patient's 
medical history included pyogenic arthritis, pyoderma gangrenosum and acne syndrome (PAPA syndrome). The 
patient was treated with infliximab, recombinant (lyophilized powder, intravenous) unspecified dose and frequency, 
initiated on an unspecified date for PAPA syndrome (drug used for unapproved indication), characterising off-label 
use. Concomitant medications were not reported. The patient had extensive lesions on her extremities requiring 
sedation for dressing changes, had been treated with adalimumab, 20 mg every 14 days, and pulses of 
methylprednisolone without effect. The patient showed some improvement after being treated with infliximab. 
However, she developed generalized urticaria after the second infusion. Despite etanercept, 2 mg/kg /week, and 
frequent infusions of methylprednisolone, she worsened and did not improve until she was started on golimumab, 
50 mg every 10 days. The patient eventually healed completely. Action taken with infliximab, recombinant was not 
reported. The outcome was not reported for urticaria, drug used for unapproved indication and off label use. The 
authors concluded that the observations indicated that treatment with infliximab, if tolerated, or high dose 
golimumab might be more effective than high doses of etanercept or adalimumab in those patients with PAPA 
syndrome and severe pyoderma gangrenosum lesions
This report was not serious.
This case, from the same reporter was linked to 20151119236.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 112 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Revision to the information received on 17-NOV-2015. Upon review the following corrections were made. The 
primary reporter qualification and address were updated in reporter screen.
Follow-up report was received on 14-JAN-2016.
The report contains no new information and no changes were made to the report.
Case was reassessed as serious based on additional information received from a physician on 05-FEB-2016.
The patient was treated with infliximab, recombinant initiated in 2012. Approximate total number of infusions the 
patient had received was 2 infusions. Concomitant medications included paracetamol, diphenhydramine 
hydrochloride, methylprednisolone sodium succinate and anti-histamines for pre medication. The patient did not 
receive more infliximab after their adverse reactions. As mentioned in the package insert, hypersensitivity reaction 
included urticaria and anaphylaxis had been associated with infliximab. The events were resolved. The event did 
not occur following an interruption of infliximab therapy. The infliximab treatment was not readministered after the 
event. Treatment with infliximab, recombinant was withdrawn. The patient had recovered from anaphylaxis and 
urticaria on an unspecified date. The reporter's details were updated in the reporter screen.
The point of the author's poster was that infliximab was effective much more so than Enbrel (etanercept) if no 
adverse reactions occur.
This report was serious (medically significant).