(b) (6) This report was received from 
clinical trial (b) (6)  EudraCT 
#: 2008-005237-30, and concerns an subject of unspecified age and sex (subject ID: (b) (6)  site ID: (b) (6) ) from the 
United States.
The subject's height and weight were not reported. The subject's concurrent conditions included inflammatory 
bowel disease. The subject was treated with infliximab, recombinant (lyophilized powder, intravenous) unspecified 
dose and frequency initiated on 13-NOV-2014 for inflammatory bowel disease. Concomitant medications were not 
reported. In NOV-2015, the subject experienced upper respiratory infection. The dose of infliximab, recombinant 
was not changed. The outcome was not reported for upper respiratory infection. The investigator did not provide the
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 115 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
causality between upper respiratory infection and infliximab, recombinant. Company causality was assessed as 
possible.
This report was serious (hospitalization).
Additional information was received from an investigator on 22-DEC-2015 and on 23-DEC-2015.
The subject's date of birth was updated. This report concerns a 7-year-old male subject. The subject's height was 
122 centimeters and weight was 27 kilograms. The subject had not currently enrolled in any other registry or clinical
trial. Subject's concomitant medications included paracetamol, probiotics, multivitamins and cefalexin for otitis 
media. In (b) (6)  the subject experienced otitis media, on (b) (6)  the subject had moderate upper 
respiratory infection (previously reported as in NOV-2015), and on (b) (6)  the subject had moderate viral 
ileus (coded as ileus and gastrointestinal viral infection) and hospitalized on (b) (6)  It was reported that the 
subject had abdominal X-ray and it showed an opacity at the right cardiophrenic angle suspicious for atelectasis; 
also there were moderately distended bowel loops which appear to represent both small bowel and large bowel. 
The subject became febrile and was given two doses of intravenous ceftriaxone with improvement of symptoms. 
The stool hem occult was weakly negative however his hemoglobin and hematocrit was stable. The subject's 
inflammatory markers and white blood cells (WBC) were mildly elevated. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) screen 
was negative. The inflammatory markers and WBC were mildly elevated, as subject was due for his next scheduled
infliximab infusion in the following week. The subject's mother stated that the subject often becomes symptomatic 
with extra intestinal manifestations of abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, joint pain, back pain and leg pain 1-2 weeks 
prior to his next scheduled infusion. The subject was diagnosed with worsening symptoms of upper respiratory 
infection of unspecified etiology and viral ileus of unspecified etiology. The subject was treated with intravenous 
fluids, intravenous (IV) antibiotics and pain management with Tylenol (paracetamol). The subject reported 
improvement in symptoms and was discharged on (b) (6)  The subject presented for infliximab infusion on 
10-DEC-2015, assessment revealed resolution of upper respiratory infection symptoms and viral ileus, while 
completing oral antibiotic regimen. It was reported the serious adverse events of viral ileus (ileus and 
gastrointestinal viral infection) and upper respiratory infection had not resulted in or related to a surgical procedure; 
not a result of disease progression and those were viral infection of unspecified virus. The subject had recovered 
without sequelae from ileus and gastrointestinal viral infection on 10-DEC-2015 and upper respiratory infection on 
an unspecified date and outcome was not reported for otitis media. The investigator assessed the events of upper 
respiratory infection and viral ileus (ileus and gastrointestinal viral infection) as unlikely related to concomitant 
medications Tylenol (acetaminophen), probiotics and cefalexin and not related to concomitant medication 
multivitamin. Causality and concomitant medications were requested for the event of otitis media. The investigator 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 116 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
considered the causality between viral ileus (ileus and gastrointestinal viral infection), upper respiratory infection 
and infliximab, recombinant as unlikely (doubtful) and not provided the causality between otitis media and 
infliximab, recombinant. Company causality was assessed as doubtful between viral ileus (ileus and gastrointestinal
viral infection), upper respiratory infection and infliximab, recombinant and possible between otitis media and 
infliximab, recombinant. Reporter details were updated. 
This case, involving the same patient was linked to 20150619114.
Additional information was received from an investigator on 30-DEC-2015.
As per the site the event of otitis media was a non-serious adverse event and was downgraded. The serious 
adverse event serious infection of upper respiratory infection was moderate in severity. The subject had recovered 
without sequelae from upper respiratory infection on 10-DEC-2015 (previously not reported). The previously 
reported event of otitis media was deleted.
Additional information was received from an investigator on 04-JAN-2016.
The site had amended the event term from upper respiratory infection to worsening upper respiratory infection. On 
(b) (6)  the patient's upper respiratory infection worsened (moderate severity) and the pathogen was 
reported as viral. The patient had recovered without sequelae from worsened upper respiratory infection on 10-
DEC-2015. The investigator considered the causality between worsened upper respiratory infection and infliximab, 
recombinant as unlikely (doubtful). Company causality was assessed as doubtful between worsened upper 
respiratory infection and infliximab, recombinant. The investigator assessed the events of worsening upper 
respiratory infection as unlikely related to concomitant medications Tylenol (acetaminophen), probiotics and 
cephalexin and not related to concomitant medication multivitamin.