This is a literature case from the United States of America. A 04-year-old male patient experienced toxic epidermal 
necrolysis and had leukemoid reaction while on therapy with ibuprofen.
The patient's past medical history included multi-visceral transplant consisting of liver, stomach, pancreas, small 
and large intestines and splenectomy was performed at the time of operation. Concurrent medical conditions 
included gastroschisis. Co-suspect medications included paracetamol (Tylenol) and piperacillin-tazobactam.
The patient with a history of gastroschisis and subsequent intestinal failure underwent a multi-visceral transplant 
consisting of liver, stomach, pancreas, small and large intestines. Splenectomy was performed at the time of 
operation. He showed signs of moderate to severe rejection early on, and remained hospitalized for a lengthy 
period with multiple bacterial and viral infections. Approximately 4 months after his transplant he began to develop 
bullae on his face and mouth which gradually progressed over the next 2 months to cover an estimated 40 percent 
of his body including his scalp, face, chest, limbs and abdomen. These lesions would blister and slough easily with 
any type of contact. He was investigated for infectious etiologies, which were negative. Biopsy of the lesions 
showed apoptotic keratinocytes with epithelial necrosis. The reaction was thought to be secondary to ibuprofen, 
intravenous Tylenol or piperacillin-tazobactam. When conservative management with frequent wound care failed, 
the decision was made to pursue therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) along with replacement of intravenous 
immune globulin (IVIG). He received five sessions of therapeutic plasma exchange over eight days with two 
infusions of intravenous immune globulin. There was almost immediate improvement in the appearance of his 
lesions. Wound care was continued and by the time of discharge 2 months later his skin was completely healed 
with only patches of hypopigmentation. Interestingly, this patient displayed a severe leukemoid reaction after 
completing plasma exchange. While a dysregulated immune system after transplant may have contributed to this 
patient's presentation, there is a role for therapeutic plasma exchange in addition to conventional therapies in the 
treatment of refractory TEN in paediatrics.
Literature reference: Alladin A, Defreitas M, Garcia J, Beduschi T, Tekin A, Katsoufis C et al. Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis after pediatric multivisceral transplant treated with plasma exchange. Critical Care Medicine. 2015; 
Alladin A, Defreitas M, Garcia J, Beduschi T, Tekin A, Katsoufis C et al. Toxic epidermal necrolysis after pediatric 
multivisceral transplant treated with plasma exchange. Abstract 1287. Crit Care Med. 2015;43(12 Suppl 1):323-4.
Follow-up information was received on 28 December 2015.
Additional/New information: Added new event (leukemoid reaction), updated citation and narrative.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 120 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information