This is an initial literature case (Gerardi DM, Murphy TK, Toufexis M, Hanks C. Serotonergic or Anticholinergic 
Toxidrome: Case Report of a 9-Year-Old Girl. Pediatr-Emerg-Care 2015;31(12):846-50.) received on 21-Dec-2015 
concerning a 09-year-old female patient, who experienced serotonin syndrome and anticholinergic toxidrome while 
receiving Diphenhydramine, Hyoscyamine, Ondansetron and Sertraline. The patient had a history of extensive 
treatment for nausea and diarrhea.  The concomitant medication included Omeprazole, Sucralfate, Montelukast, 
Acetaminophen and Nitazoxanide.
It was reported that the patient was recently hospitalized 3 times for prolonged gastroenteritis, dehydration, 
rotavirus, and lactose intolerance. Other than lactose intolerance, no medical explanation was found and symptoms
were attributed to anxiety. The patient was evaluated in the outpatient clinic for anxiety and reported numerous 
symptoms, including skin biting, compulsive use of lotion after washing her hands, scrunching her neck and head, 
insomnia, and hoarding.
She was started on sertraline 6.25 mg, and at follow-up 2 weeks later, she reported no adverse effects and was 
continued on the current dose with a plan to increase to 12.5 mg in 2 weeks. At that visit, hyoscyamine 0.125mg for
diarrhea was reported as a new medicine, in addition to her regimen of omeprazole, sucralfate, and montelukast. 
Two days after the follow-up clinic visit, the patient developed nausea, emesis and diarrhea and was subsequently 
hospitalized for 4 days. During the hospitalization, she developed a red rash, similar in appearance to pityriasis 
rosea, on her back. During this time, current medications included hyoscyamine 0.125 mg, ondansetron 4 mg, 
acetaminophen 320 mg, omeprazole 20 mg, montelukast 5 mg, and sertraline 6.25 mg. Sucralfate was 
discontinued on patient's request.
After the hospital discharge, sertraline was increased, as previously planned, to 12.5 mg. The rash continued, and 
the patient began displaying muscle twitching and experiencing a headache. Three days after discharge from 
hospital, the patient's mother gave her approximately 25 mg of diphenhydramine for treatment of the rash. Because
of stomach cramps, the patient often took hyoscyamine twice per day. Patient continued taking ondansetron, 
omeprazole, and montelukast. She also completed a course of nitazoxanide for possible infectious causes of 
diarrhea. Four days after discharge, the patient was on an outing and seemed fatigued and, according to her 
mother, out of sorts. In addition, the patient complained of not being able to see. The patient later told her 
grandmother that she was having stomach pain and was given hyoscyamine, which is noted to potentially 
exacerbate blurry vision. 
After a nap, she woke up with hugely dilated pupils, which later appeared to be between 7 and 10 mm dilated. She 
was agitated and was taken to the emergency department (ED), where she displayed alteredmental status, 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 123 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
confusion, disorientation, mydriasis, dry and flushing skin, temperature of 37.6 degree C, and nonsensical speech. 
In addition, she was experiencing visual hallucinations and delirium. Opsoclonus, rigidity, or lower extremity 
hyperreflexia were not observed. Per electrocardiogram, the patient exhibited borderline prolonged QT (0.463 
seconds) and sinus tachycardia (pulse rate, 160 beats per minute). 
Doctors attributed her symptoms to serotonin syndrome, and she was given a midazolam drip as well as 
cyproheptadine. Because she remained combative despite administration of agents typical for the treatment of 
serotonergic toxicity, she was transferred to the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU). In the PICU, her lack of 
cooperation, as well as pupils nonreactive with dilation of 5 mm bilaterally, continued. She also continued to 
hallucinate, lack orientation to person or place, and display slurred speech. Cardiac monitor indicated that sinus 
tachycardia continued. Laboratory results indicated elevated platelet count (462 th/mcL), elevated neutrophil count 
(56.2%), and low lymphocyte count (34.2%). 
Urine immunoassay for common drugs of abuse was negative. Pediatric intensive care unit monitoring continued, 
with intravenous fluids at 1.5 times maintenance, midazolam infusion, cyproheptadine as needed, famotidine, and 
discontinuation of sertraline, omeprazole, acetaminophen, and montelukast. In addition, the patient was not 
permitted to have food. The next day, the patient was beet red and complained of dry mouth. Despite elimination of 
sertraline, symptoms attributed to serotonin syndrome persisted. After 30 hours, the patient could still not see or 
walk. Upon decreasing the midazolam drip, the patient became very combative, saying things such as don't get 
near me, and her mother noted that she was acting like she was possessed. 
However, upon discontinuation of midazolam, she regained ability to ambulate. With combative symptoms, dry 
mouth, and skin discoloration persisting, as well as a new development of clonus, an advanced registered nurse 
practitioner (ARNP) interceded, and with the patient's mother's insistence, a psychiatrist was consulted. Computed 
tomography scan of the head without contrast was ordered; the results of which seemed normal. Psychiatry 
suggested bipolar risk, an activation adverse effect, and the ARNP prescribed risperidone and to continue 
melatonin, ondansetron, and famotidine. Four days after admission, the patient was vomiting and had diarrhea. She
was still taking hyoscyamine and diphenhydramine and was also given promethazine for nausea and emesis while 
in the hospital.
At time of discharge, the patient was oriented and normotensive, with no pyrexia or tachycardia. Her blurred vision, 
nausea, and emesis persisted at discharge, as well as her dry, warm, pink skin. Home medications were same at 
discharge as at admission, with famotidine substituted for omeprazole and minus sertraline. At clinic follow-up 1 
week after discharge, the patient denied stomachaches, nausea, or emesis with continuation of the lactosefree diet.
Blurred vision and clonus were slow to resolve. Her mood seemed stable but more anxious. Pruritus and 
complaints of leg itching were reported. Because of concerns that her persisting symptoms were due to 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 124 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
anticholinergic toxicity, hyoscyamine and diphenhydramine were discontinued. 
Risperidone was changed to 0.125 mg every morning and 0.25 mg every evening, with a plan to discontinue the 
morning dose in 1 week. With cessation of the anticholinergic agents, the patient's symptoms that prompted her 
hospitalization gradually remitted.
Author Comment: Differential diagnosis between anticholinergic toxidrome and serotonin syndrome can be made 
by noting the presence of normal reflexes, agitated delirium, dry oral mucosa, hot and dry skin, urinary retention, 
and absence of bowel sounds in anticholinergic toxidrome. However, diagnosis is often complicated by premorbid 
conditions, such as in this case, a history of chronic nausea, emesis, and diarrhea.