This case was reported in a literature article and described the occurrence of anticholinergic syndrome in a 9-year-
old female patient who received Sertraline (Brandname/tradename unknown) for chronic anxiety and 
gastrointestinal problems. 
Co-suspect medication included Hyoscyamine, Ondansetron (Brandname/tradename unknown), Montelukast, 
Nitazoxanide, Omeprazole (Brandname/tradename unknown) and Diphenhydramine (Brandname/tradename 
unknown).
On an unknown date, the patient started Sertraline (oral) at a total daily dose of 6.25 mg as well as hyosyamine, 
ondansetron, montelukast and a course of nitazoxabide. She was also routinely given diphenhydramine and 
omeprazole.   On an unknown date the dose of sertraline was increased to a total daily dose of 12.5 mg. 
Approximately 3 days after the increasing of Sertraline, the patient presented to the emergency room with altered 
mental status, hallucinations, mydriasis, tachycardia, and pyrexia. She was admitted to the pediatric intensive care 
unit (PICU), and subsequently treated unsuccessfully for serotonin syndrome, with blurred vision and clonus 
persisting at discharge, four days after admittance. Upon follow-up with her outpatient clinic, all anticholinergic 
agents were discontinued, and symptoms slowly resolved.
The patient was hospitalised. At the time of reporting, the outcome of the events was slowly resolved. The author 
considered the events were related to treatment with Sertraline, Hyoscyamine, Ondansetron, Montelukast, 
Nitazoxanide, Omeprazole and Diphenhydramine and commented "this case illustrates the importance of 
differential diagnosis between toxidromes, and how clinical presentation can be altered by preexisting conditions as
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 156 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
well as the use of medications that affect multiple neurotransmitter systems".
Follow up received on 28Dec2015:
The patient is a 9-year-old girl with a history of extensive treatment for nausea and diarrhea. She had been recently 
hospitalized 3 times for prolonged gastroenteritis, dehydration, rotavirus, and lactose intolerance. Other than 
lactose intolerance, no medical explanation was found, and symptoms were attributed to anxiety. The patient was 
evaluated in the outpatient clinic for anxiety and reported numerous symptoms, including skin biting, compulsive 
use of lotion after washing her hands, scrunching her neck and head, insomnia, and hoarding. She was started on 
sertraline 6.25 mg, and at follow-up 2 weeks later, she reported no adverse effects and was continued on the 
current dose with a plan to increase to 12.5 mg in 2 weeks. At that visit, hyoscyamine 0.125mg for diarrheawas 
reported as a new medicine, in addition to her regimen of omeprazole, sucralfate, and montelukast. Two days after 
the follow-up clinic visit, the patient developed nausea, emesis, and diarrhea, and was subsequently hospitalized for
4 days. During the hospitalization, she developed a red rash, similar in appearance to pityriasis rosea, on her back. 
During this time, current medications included hyoscyamine 0.125 mg, ondansetron 4 mg, acetaminophen 320 mg, 
omeprazole 20 mg, montelukast 5 mg, and sertraline 6.25 mg. Sucralfate was discontinued on patient's request. 
After the hospital discharge, sertraline was increased, as previously planned, to 12.5 mg. The rash continued, and 
the patient began displaying muscle twitching and experiencing a headache. Three days after discharge 
fromhospital, the patient's mother gave her approximately 25 mg of diphenhydramine for treatment of the rash. 
Because of stomach cramps, the patient often took hyoscyamine twice per day. Patient continued taking 
ondansetron, omeprazole, and montelukast. She also completed a course of nitazoxanide for possible infectious 
causes of diarrhea. Four days after discharge, the patient was on an outing and seemed fatigued and, according to 
her mother, "out of sorts." In addition, the patient complained of not being able to see. The patient later told her 
grandmother that she was having stomach pain and was given hyoscyamine, which is noted to potentially 
exacerbate blurry vision. After a nap, she woke up with hugely dilated pupils, which later appeared to be between 7 
and 10 mm dilated. She was agitated and was taken to the emergency department (ED), where she displayed 
alteredmental status, confusion, disorientation, mydriasis, dry and flushing skin, temperature of 37.6?C, and 
nonsensical speech. In addition, she was experiencing visual hallucinations and delirium. Opsoclonus, rigidity, or 
lower extremity hyperreflexia were not observed. Per electrocardiogram, the patient exhibited borderline prolonged 
QT (0.463 seconds) and sinus tachycardia (pulse rate, 160 beats per minute). Doctors attributed her symptoms to 
serotonin syndrome, and she was given a midazolam drip as well as cyproheptadine. Because she remained 
combative despite administration of agents typical for the treatment of serotonergic toxicity, she was transferred to 
the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU). In the PICU, her lack of cooperation, as well as pupils nonreactive with 
dilation of 5 mm bilaterally, continued. She also continued to hallucinate, lack orientation to person or place, and 
display slurred speech. Cardiac monitor indicated that sinus tachycardia continued. Laboratory results indicated 
elevated platelet count (462 th/?L), elevated neutrophil count (56.2%), and low lymphocyte count (34.2%). Urine 
immunoassay for common drugs of abusewas negative. Pediatric intensive care unit monitoring continued, with 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 157 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
intravenous fluids at 1.5 times maintenance, midazolam infusion, cyproheptadine as needed, famotidine, and 
discontinuation of sertraline, omeprazole, acetaminophen, and montelukast. In addition, the patient was not 
permitted to have food. The next day, the patient was "beet red" and complained of dry mouth. Despite elimination 
of sertraline, symptoms attributed to serotonin syndrome persisted. After 30 hours, the patient could still not see or 
walk. Upon decreasing the midazolam drip, the patient became very combative, saying things such as "don't get 
near me," and her mother noted that she was "acting like she was possessed." However, upon discontinuation of 
midazolam, she regained ability to ambulate. With combative symptoms, dry mouth, and skin discoloration 
persisting, as well as a new development of clonus, an advanced registered nurse practitioner (ARNP) interceded, 
and with the patient'smother's insistence, a psychiatrist was consulted. Computed tomography scan of the head 
without contrast was ordered; the results of which seemed normal. Psychiatry suggested bipolar risk, an activation 
adverse effect, and the ARNP prescribed risperidone and to continue melatonin, ondansetron, and famotidine. Four
days after admission, the patient was vomiting and had diarrhea. She was still taking hyoscyamine and 
diphenhydramine and was also given promethazine for nausea and emesis while in the hospital (see Table 1 for 
symptom overview with comparison of presentations of anticholinergic toxidrome and serotonin syndrome). At time 
of discharge, the patient was oriented and normotensive, with no pyrexia or tachycardia. Her blurred vision, nausea,
and emesis persisted at discharge, as well as her dry, warm, pink skin. Home medications were same at discharge 
as at admission, with famotidine substituted for omeprazole and minus sertraline. At clinic follow-up 1 week after 
discharge, the patient denied stomachaches, nausea, or emesis with continuation of the lactosefree diet. Blurred 
vision and clonus were slow to resolve. Her mood seemed stable but more anxious. Pruritus and complaints of leg 
itching were reported. Because of concerns that her persisting symptoms were due to anticholinergic toxicity, 
hyoscyamine and diphenhydramine were discontinued. Risperidone was changed to 0.125 mg every morning and 
0.25 mg every evening, with a plan to discontinue the morning dose in 1 week. With cessation of the anticholinergic
agents, the patient's symptoms that prompted her hospitalization gradually remitted (see Table 2 for medication 
timeline).