Source of report and patient demography:
This spontaneous case was initially received on 29-Dec-2015.
The case report was received from a Health Professional in the United States and concerns a child male patient.
Weight: 38 pounds, Height: 40 inches
Linked Case ID(s): Us-BEH-2014043280 (Same patient).
Concurrent medical condition(s), medical and drug history:
At the time of the event the patient concomitantly suffered from Lidocaine/Prilocaine allergy.
The following drug history information was reported:
Lidocaine/Prilocaine (Indication: -, Reaction: Drug allergy).
For concomitant medication and therapy dates refer to the appropriate report sections.
Suspect drug(s), timing and conditions surrounding the onset of reaction(s)/event(s):
The patient received Hizentra (IMMUNOGLOBULIN HUMAN NORMAL) for indication not reported on 22-Jul-2014 -
unknown stop date, Batch no: 4323800085, Route of administration: Subcutaneous, Dose: 2 g.
Additional suspect drug(s):
No additional drugs suspected.
Reaction(s)/event(s) and outcome:
On (b) (6)  the patient was hospitalized with sore throat (serious, hospitalized, outcome: Unknown) and 
swollen glands (serious, hospitalized, outcome: Unknown).
On an unknown date, the patient experienced infusion site irritation (non-serious, outcome: Unknown), infusion site 
redness (non-serious, outcome: Unknown) and infusion site rash (non-serious, outcome: Unknown).
Action taken: Ongoing.
Event treatment: Not reported.
Rechallenge/Dechallenge information: Not applicable.
Reporter's assessment: Not reported.
Company's evaluation and comment:
Seriousness criterion/criteria: Hospitalization.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 161 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Listedness: According to the Reference Safety Information, the events infusion site irritation, infusion site redness 
and Infusion site rash are listed events of Hizentra, the events Sore throat and swollen glands are unlisted events of
Hizentra.
Case Causality: Unrelated for events sore throat and swollen glands based on a presumed underlying 
immunodeficiency (approved indication for Hizentra) and patient is therefore at an increased risk for infections 
leading sore throat and swollen glands. Possible for events infusion site redness, rash and irritation due to close 
anatomical location (occured at the infusion site).