Case number# PHHY2016US000525, is an initial literature case report received on 04 Jan 2016. The author 
discussed multiorgan wu polyomavirus infection in bone marrow transplant recipient. This report refers to a neonate
female patient. In (b) (6)  a 27-month-old girl was admitted to an (b) (6)  area hospital for a 5/6 human
leukocyte antigen-matched cord blood transplant from an unrelated donor. The patient had been born by normal 
vaginal delivery after 40 weeks of gestation.   Her medical history included leukocytosis at 3 months and 
splenomegaly at 6 months of age. Refractory juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia was diagnosed when she was 16 
months of age, and she underwent splenectomy in (b) (6)  She had multiple infections before 2 years of age, 
including otitis media, a central vein catheter infection, and a urinary tract infection. She also demonstrated failure 
to thrive, developmental delay, mild pulmonic stenosis, and gastroesophageal reflux. Three weeks after the bone 
marrow transplant, the child experienced fever; diarrhea; hepatomegaly; and erythema on her face, palms, and 
soles. She was evaluated for graft versus host disease, viral exanthema, and drug eruption. The results of skin 
biopsies performed at 4 weeks after transplantation ruled out graft versus host disease and drug eruption. A 
rectosigmoid biopsy performed at the same time as the skin biopsies showed mild stromal edema but was negative
for adenovirus and cytomegalovirus by immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining. Throughout the course of the patient's
hospitalization, adenovirus was intermittently isolated from her feces and urine and influenza B virus was detected 
in her nose and throat. PCR testing of the blood for cytomegalovirus was consistently negative. Treatment included 
cyclosporine (manufacturer unknown); Solu-medrol (Pharmacia & Upjohn LLC, New York, NY, USA); intravenous 
immunoglobulin; ribavirin; Zosyn (Pfizer Inc., New York, NY, USA); Flagyl (Pfizer Inc.); Flutamine (Schering-Plough,
Kenilworth, NJ, USA); Tamiflu (Roche Pharmaceuticals, Nutley, NJ, USA); Demerol (Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC, 
Bridgewater, NJ, USA); Zofran (GlaxoSmithKline, Philadelphia, PA, USA); Phenergan (Wyeth, Madison, NJ, USA); 
Tylenol (Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, NJ, USA); albuterol; isradipine; Spironolactone (Mylan 
Pharmaceuticals, Morgantown, WV, USA); hemotransfusion; and platelet transfusion. Despite this aggressive 
therapy, the patient's condition continued to deteriorate. On (b) (6)  the patient was transferred to the 
pediatric intensive care unit because of respiratory failure. Chest radiographs revealed pulmonary edema. Her 
condition was stabilized 2 days later, but severe acute respiratory distress syndrome and distended abdomen 
developed on (b) (6)  Treatment was continued and mechanical ventilation was added. A radiograph taken on (b)(6)  
 (?11 weeks after transplantation) revealed free air in the abdominal cavity, but the source was not identified. The
patient died later that day; the probable cause of death was viral pneumonitis. An autopsy was performed. The 
most remarkable gross autopsy findings were bilateral pulmonary consolidation, acute tracheobronchitis, 
hepatomegaly with cholestasis, deep mucosal ulcerations throughout the small bowel, and prominent generalized 
lymphadenopathy. The most notable pathologic finding was heavy hemorrhagic foci in the lungs. Microscopic 
examination of the lungs confirmed the presence of interstitial emphysema with profound hemorrhage in the right 
upper, right middle, left upper, and left lower lobes. Multiple smudge cells and cells with Cowdry type A nuclear 
inclusions were identified inside reactive bronchial epithelium from both lungs. Similar inclusions were seen in 
epithelium of the trachea, bile duct, renal tubules, and urinary bladder. Small bowel mucosa revealed multifocal 
ulcerations and scattered inclusion-bearing cells in the epithelium. Findings after immunoperoxidase staining were 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 143 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
negative for cytomegalovirus, adenovirus, influenza virus, human papillomavirus, respiratory syncytial virus, and 
simian virus 40, and in situ hybridization was negative for Epstein-Barr virus. Attempts to culture virus from the lung,
liver, gastrointestinal tract, and lymph node tissues were unsuccessful. Gram-stained sections of lung, liver, and 
lymph node showed >25 neutrophils per lowpower field without presence of organisms. Coagulasenegative 
Staphylococcus spp. grew from a blood culture (<30 CFU/mL) and culture of the gastrointestinal tract. No strictly 
anaerobic growth was observed. Electron micrographs of the lungs showed viral particles in the nuclei, many in 
para-crystalline arrays. The particles were 30.4-34.7 nm (mean 32.1 nm) in diameter. The diameter was less than 
the conventional diameter for polyomaviruses (45 nm), but the size of viral particles can vary according to the 
method of fixation and embedding. In addition, previously published electron microscopy findings for BKPyV 
particles indicated measurements of 30-50 nm. Despite the presence of viral particles indicative of polyomavirus, 
IHC on lung tissue with a primary antibody against simian virus 40, which is known to cross-react with BK and JC 
polyomaviruses, was negative. IHC for adenovirus and respiratory syncytial virus was also negative. Although 
electron microscopy indicated a probable viral infection in the patient's lungs, because of the negative IHC results, 
no further testing was performed at that time. Authors concluded that WUPyV was detected by multiple methods in 
the lung of a bone marrow transplant recipient who had viral pneumonitis at the time of death. Tracheal tissue from 
this patient was also positive for WU-VP1. A complete understanding of the types of cells and tissues in which the 
virus replicates is critical for identifying potential diseases with which it may be associated. However, the propensity 
for viruses of the family Polyomaviridae to cause disease only within the context of immunosuppression makes 
disease association particularly challenging.