Case reference number DKLU2008496, is a spontaneous case received from a health care professional via a 
SHARE representative. Additional information was received from the physician:
This case concerns a 2-year-old male patient treated with Sabril (vigabatrin) for infantile spasms, 1000 Milligram 
daily, from /Sep/2014 to 04/Jan/2016 and 1200 Milligram daily, from 04/Jan/2016 to unknown date.
On(b) (6)  (or (b) (6) ), approximately one and a half years after first dose of vigabatrin the patient 
experienced viral illness and seizures.  The type, intensity, and frequency of the seizures were not reported.  The 
dose of Sabril was increased on 04/Jan/2016.
The patient was hospitalized due to viral illness and seizures.  The patient remained hospitalized at the time of 
reporting.
The physician reported the patient was admitted to the hospital from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  for status 
epilepticus in the setting of a febrile respiratory illness with the symptoms of cough, tachypnea, increased work of 
breathing, and tachycardia. He had one seizure that lasted a total of about 70 min (unclear why no home rescue 
medication was administered). He had another cluster of seizures lasting 45 min that resolved with Diastat. At 
baseline, he has had about 20 seizures/day, but they are typically brief. The physician also informed that patient 
had improved from a respiratory standpoint, was off supplemental oxygen, and had returned to baseline frequency 
and duration of seizures. 
The patient was treated with supportive care including antipyretics and supplemental oxygen, IV fluids, chest PT, 
and a recommended weight adjustment of Vigabatrin.
The physicians causality assessment for viral illness was not related with an alternative etiology of viral illness due 
to sick contacts . The causality assessment for the event of seizures was possible, but predominantly related to 
infection.
The medical history of the patient included: 
Medically Refractory Epilepsy from an unknown date and ongoing, HIE from an unknown date and ongoing, 
Microcephaly from an unknown date and ongoing, Severe Developmental Delay from an unknown date and 
ongoing, Frequent Admissions For Respiratory Illnesses at time requiring ICU (start date and end date not 
reported), Status Epilepticus typically in setting of an infection, from an unknown date and ongoing.
Concomitant medication included: Keppra (levetiracetam) for unknown indication, Qvar (beclometasone 
dipropionate) for unknown indication, Famotidine for unknown indication, Levalbuterol (levosalbutamol) for 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 178 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
unknown indication, Tylenol (paracetamol) for unknown indication, Ibuprofen for unknown indication, and Miralax 
(macrogol) for unknown indication.
The patient was recovering from status epilepticus, seizures, respiratory illness/viral illness at time of reporting.
If additional relevant information is received the case will be re-distributed.
LATEST FOLLOW-UP INFORMATION RECEIVED ON 05/Feb/2016.
The case has been updated with the following information:
- Additional reporter
- Additional events of status epilepticus and viral/respiratory illness 
- Additional event information
- Treatment information
- Event outcomes
- Concomitant medications
- History
- Physician causality assessment and alternative etiology
- Narrative updated accordingly