This literature report from the United States (initial receipt 06-Jan-2015) concerns a 27-month-old girl who was 
admitted for a 5/6 human leukocyte antigen-matched cord blood transplant from an unrelated donor in(b) (6)  
 Her medical history included refractory juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia, diagnosed when the child was 16 
months old. The child underwent splenectomy in (b) (6)  She demonstrated failure to thrive, developmental 
delay, mild pulmonic stenosis, and gastroesophageal reflux.
Three weeks after the bone marrow transplant, the child experienced fever; diarrhea; hepatomegaly; and erythema 
on her face, palms, and soles. Graft versus host disease and drug eruption were ruled out. A rectosigmoid biopsy 
performed at the same time as the skin biopsies showed mild stromal edema. Throughout the course of the 
patient's hospitalization, adenovirus was intermittently isolated from her feces and urine and influenza B virus was 
detected in her nose and throat. Treatment included cyclosporine; Solu-medrol; intravenous immunoglobulin (brand
name not provided); ribavirin; Zosyn; Flagyl; Flutamine; Tamiflu; Demerol; Zofran; Phenergan; Tylenol; albuterol; 
isradipine; Spironolactone; hemotransfusion; and platelet transfusion. Despite this aggressive therapy, the patient's 
condition continued to deteriorate.
On (b) (6)  the patient was transferred to the pediatric intensive care unit because of respiratory failure. 
Chest radiographs revealed pulmonary edema. Her condition was stabilized 2 days later, but severe acute 
respiratory distress syndrome and distended abdomen developed on (b) (6)  Treatment was continued and 
mechanical ventilation was added.
On (b) (6)  the patient died; the probable cause of death was viral pneumonitis.
Reporter comment:
This is a case of viral pneumonitis in a bone marrow transplant recipient who died in 2001. Before her death, 
influenza and adenovirus were identified from the patient.
Although samples from the patient were initially tested for several viruses by immunohistochemistry reported as 
IHC and culture, no agent was identified. Subsequent work since 2007 showed that multiple tissues from this 
patient were positive for WU polyomavirus reported as WUPyV by real-time PCR and IHC, but the same tissues 
were negative for KI polyomavirus reported as KIPyV and human bocavirus reported as HBoV by PCR. To date, 
WUPyV has been the only virus detected in tissue samples from this patient. Crystalline lattices of polyomavirus-
like particles were seen in the lung, which substantiated the high virus titers measured by qPCR. Collectively, these 
observations suggest a potential pathogenic role for WUPyV infection in this case. However, we cannot rule out the 
possibility that WUPyV infection was simply opportunistic in this severely immunocompromised patient.
In conclusion, WUPyV was detected by multiple methods in the lung of a bone marrow transplant recipient who had
viral pneumonitis at the time of death. Tracheal tissue from this patient was also positive for mouse monoclonal 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 191 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
antibody against viral protein (VP) 1 from WUPyV reported as WU-VP1. Viral antigen was specifically detected in 
CD68-positive cells and in close association with MUC5AC-positive cells within a tracheal submucosal gland. The 
role of WUPyV as a human pathogen remains unclear, although the evidence for an infection of the respiratory tract
in this patient is strong. This study expands our understanding of WUPyV biology and tropism beyond detection of 
virus in body fluids.
Company's evaluation and comment:
Seriousness criterion/criteria: Death.
Listedness: Adverse event Despite this aggressive therapy, the patient's condition continued to deteriorate 
(Respiratory failure, Pulmonary edema, Acute respiratory distress, Distended abdomen and Viral pneumonitis) in 
the sense of an aggravation with fatal outcome after a lack of drug effect is an unlisted adverse event of 
Sandoglobulin.
Case Causality: Possible for Despite this aggressive therapy, the patient's condition continued to deteriorate in the 
sense of a lack of drug effect although the temporal relationship and dosing/frequency is unknown. However, 100%
success rate cannot reasonably assumed in every patient. Unrelated for Aggravation with fatal outcome after LOE 
as the condition of this severely immunocompromised patient after bone marrow transplant was already bad before 
treatment with IVIG and 16 further drugs such as ciclosporin, methylprednisolone, several antibiotics and anti-viral 
drugs (all considered co-suspected drugs) and continued to deteriorate leading to fatal outcome finally (death 
cause: Viral pneumonitis) with potential pathogenic role for WU polyomavirus infection in this case despite this 
aggressive treatment.