Case reference number DKLU2007115, is a previous spontaneous non-valid case received from a (b) (6)  
representative on behalf of a non health care profession. Supplemental information was supplied from a health care
professional.
This case concerns a 7-year-old female patient treated with Sabril (For Oral Solution) (vigabatrin) for infantile 
spasms, 1000 Milligram daily, from 01/Oct/2015 to unknown date.
On (b) (6)  (b)(6) days after first dose of vigabatrin the patient experienced respiratory failure manifested as 
cough, and asthma with status asthmaticus. The patient was transferred to the PICU during the first day of 
hospitalization. Treatment included up to 14 L VT and aggressive pulmonary therapies and steroids. The patient did
not require antibiotics. The patient was transferred out to a pediatric unit on (b) (6)  The patient tolerated a 
taper of oxygen to 1.5 L. The patient was discharged home in good condition on (b) (6)
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 199 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The medical history of the patient included: 
23 Week Gestation Prematurity from an unknown date and ongoing, Grade IV IVH With VPS (intraventricular 
hemorrhage with ventriculoperitonal shunt) (start date and end date not reported), Infantile Spasms (start date and 
end date not reported), Functional Quadriplegia (start date and end date not reported), Global Developmental Delay
(start date and end date not reported), Dysphagia With G Tube Dependence (start date and end date not reported),
CLD/BPD (chronic lung disease/bronchopulmonary dysplasia) from an unknown date and ongoing, Premature 
Sexual Development (start date and end date not reported), Microphthalmia (start date and end date not reported), 
and Glaucoma (start date and end date not reported). 
Concomitant medication included: Klonopin (clonazepam)  for unknown indication, Acetaminophen (paracetamol) 
for fever, pain, Albuterol (salbutamol) for unknown indication, Atropine Ophthalmic Drops for unknown indication, 
Baclofen for unknown indication, Clonazepam for unknown indication, Dorzolamide-Timolol (timolol maleate, 
dorzolamide hydrochloride) for unknown indication, Fluticasone Nasal Spray (fluticasone propionate) for unknown 
indication, Hyper-Sal (sodium chloride) for thick secretions, Normal Saline for thick secretions, Ibuprofen for fever, 
mild pain, Lanolin Topical Cream (wool fat) for unknown indication, Latanoprost for unknown indication, Loratadine 
for unknown indication, Lupron 1 (leuprorelin acetate) for unknown indication, Miralax for unknown indication, 
Omeprazole for unknown indication, Prednisolone Acetate for unknown indication, and Qvar (beclometasone 
dipropionate) for unknown indication.
Investigations and laboratory results showed:
Weight, (b) (6)  27 kg.
Vigabatrin therapy was ongoing. The patient was recovering from respiratory failure, asthma with status 
asthmaticus at time of reporting.
If additional relevant information is received the case will be re-distributed.