This case, BioMarin case number US-2016-108638, is a Spontaneous report from the UNITED STATES referring 
to an 8 Year-old Female patient. This case was reported by a Nurse.
The patient's concurrent conditions included Mucopolysaccharidosis. No past medical history or allergies were 
reported. The patient had no known drug allergies. Concomitant medication included paracetamol, 
diphenhydramine, lidocaine/prilocaine, sodium chloride, epinephrine, cetirizine and levetiracetam. 
On 19-MAY-2015, the patient initiated treatment with Vimizim (30 mg, qw, Intravenous) for the indication of 
Mucopolysaccharidosis. The lot number for Vimizim was L401202. The most recent dose of Vimizim was 
administered on an unreported date.
On 09-JAN-2016, the patient experienced a seizure (SEIZURE) and went to the emergency room. No additional 
clinical details were reported. No laboratory or diagnostic tests were reported. Treatment for the event was not 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 204 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
reported. The action taken with Vimizim due to the event was not reported.
The outcome of the event was reported as Unknown.
BioMarin Pharmaceutical assessed the event as medically significant.
The reporter did not provide an assessment of the event of SEIZURE in relation to treatment with Vimizim. No other
etiological factors were reported. 
Additional information has been requested and, if received, the report will be updated.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RECEIVED ON 25-JAN-2016:
The patient's concurrent condition of Mucopolysaccharidosis was updated to Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA. It was 
reported that the patient's medical history included seizure disorder.
The indication for Vimizim treatment was also updated to Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA.
No action was taken with Vimizim due to the event. 
The reporter assessed the event of SEIZURE as not related to treatment with Vimizim, as the patient has a known 
underlying seizure disorder. Other etiological factors were probable; however, none were reported.
No further information was available.