Source of report and patient demography:
This spontaneous case was initially received on 14-Jan-2016.
The case report was received from a Health Professional in United States and concerns an 8 year-old male patient.
Weight: 54 pounds, Height: 36 inches
Linked Case ID(s): US-BEH-2016057780 (Same patient).
Concurrent medical condition(s), medical and drug history:
At the time of the event the patient concomitantly suffered from Latex Allergy, Total parenteral nutrition therapy 
reported as TPN and Central Line since (b) (6)
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 214 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
For concomitant medication refer to the appropriate report sections.
Suspect drug(s), timing and conditions surrounding the onset of reaction(s)/event(s):
The patient received Hizentra (IMMUNOGLOBULIN HUMAN NORMAL) for indication Non familial 
hypogammaglobulinemia since 25-Apr-2011 - unknown stop date, Batch no: 4323800085, Route of administration: 
Subcutaneous, Dose: 2 g every week.
Additional suspect drug(s):
No additional drugs suspected.
Reaction(s)/event(s) and outcome:
On (b) (6)  after treatment with Hizentra the patient experienced Central venous line infection reported as 
CVL infection (serious, hospitalized, outcome: Unknown) and Fever (serious, hospitalized, outcome: Unknown).
Action taken: dose not changed, therapy ongoing,
Event treatment: not reported,
Rechallenge/Dechallenge information: not applicable.
Reporter's assessment: not reported
Company's evaluation and comment:
Seriousness criterion/criteria: Hospitalization.
Listedness: According to the Reference Safety Information, the event Central venous line infection reported as CVL
infection is an unlisted event of Hizentra; the adverse event fever as a consequence of the infection is considered 
unlisted event of Hizentra as well. 
Case Causality: Unrelated, unknown temporal relationship; however, pharmacological and biological implausible for
the central venous line infection, the underlying immunodeficiency provides a more plausible explanation as the 
patient has a higher risk for infections and related fever.
***Case correction 10-Feb-2016 : AE Fever changed to unlisted in line with the AE infection.
***Follow up information was received from the Health care professional on 11-Feb-2016 regarding a 10 year-old 
patient who experienced a central line yeast infection on (b) (6)  and was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to 
(b) (6)  Additional allergies included dairy/whey and additional concomitant medications included Epi-pen Jr 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 215 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
and Citric acid.
Action taken: dose not changed, therapy ongoing,
Event treatment: not reported,
Rechallenge/Dechallenge information: not applicable.
Reporter's assessment: not reported
Company's evaluation and comment:
Seriousness criterion/criteria: No change to assessment.
Listedness: According to the Reference Safety Information, the event Central venous line infection [reported as 
CVL yeast infection] and [Central venous line infection reported as CVL] yeast infection are unlisted events of 
Hizentra; the adverse event fever as a consequence of the infection is considered unlisted event of Hizentra as 
well.
Case Causality: Unrelated, unknown temporal relationship; however, pharmacological and biological implausible for
the central venous line yeast infection, the underlying immunodeficiency provides a more plausible explanation as 
the patient has a higher risk for infections and related fever.