20-Jan-2016, Spontaneous, Patient/Consumer Serious report (Local #.).
A grandmother reported the case of a 9-Years-old Female patient who received PROAIR HFA (SALBUTAMOL, 
Teva product). 
The patient took PROAIR HFA (SALBUTAMOL, Inhalation vapour, Respiratory (inhalation)) batch: DAB86A.
While on the suspect medication(s), the patient experienced FEVER(Not Serious ); SHAKING(Not Serious ); 
COULDNT WALK(Serious ); HEAD JERKY(Not Serious ); TIRED(Not Serious ); MUSCLES HURT(Not Serious ); 
CANNOT STAND(Not Serious ); TROUBLE BREATHING(Not Serious ); UNUSUAL BREATHING(Not Serious ); 
PATIENT'S HAND AND FOOT WERE SHIMMYING(Not Serious ) . 
Source Product Name: ProAir HFA, 90 mcg
Description: Recvd email from  customer service on 1/20/16 :
Caller reported a product complaint, that the canister might have been tampered with and want to know
if it could be tested.
NDC#: Unknown, not available to caller
Lot#: DAB86A
Exp. Date: 8/2018
The grandmother of a 9 year-old female patient reported that her granddaughter experienced fever, shaking, 
couldn't walk, head
jerky, tired, muscles hurt, cannot stand, trouble breathing, unusual breathing, and shimmying while using PROAIR. 
The patient is
currently taking the following concomitant medication, Benadryl and has a medical history of asthma. The patient 
has been using
ProAir HFA for a couple of years, which she uses approximately once weekly. She recently obtained a new 
canister. On
1/14/2016, the patient had a fever, 99.5 degrees F. The fever resolved. On 1/18/2016 at 10:00pm, she had trouble 
breathing and
was given ProAir HFA and Benadryl. (b) (6)  after using the ProAir, the patient experienced unusual breathing 
and "shaking
all over." She was taken to the Emergency Room (ER) for "practically all night" and was discharged. On (b) (6)  
the patient
was taken to her physician. While in the physician's office, she experienced "couldn't walk," due to her knees going,
and "head
jerky." The patient experienced "tired and muscles hurt." Additionally, "I cannot stand," which was mostly on her 
right hand side.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 122 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The patient's hand and foot were shimmying, described as "picked hand up, right hand started to shake and right 
foot would go
up," which lasted one hour. The nurse was called to see the symptoms, while the mother, or grandmother filmed 
her with a
camera so the physician could view. The physician referred the patient back to the ER, where she was given IV 
fluids, urine and
blood tests, and a CT scan. All tests were normal. The patient was in the ER for approximately five hours and 
discharged. The
patient's symptoms are continuing today, although she is able to stand and walk a little better. The grandmother 
was unable to
provide complete provider, hospital, and medication information. No further information was provided.
Update: Contacted patients grandmother and she said she does not have the inhaler. Her daughter has it. She said
that her daughter is going to take it back to the pharmacy. I tried contacting her daughter and had to leave a 
message on vm with PR number. 
How is product stored?Inhalers are stored at controlled room temperature. 
Is product residue present?No
How is product cleaned?NA
Were cleaning instructions reviewed with complainant? NA
Is the complainant willing to return the product for the investigation? Patients mother is not wanting to send inhaler 
back right now.  She said she needs to  get a second opinion and see if that would be best or proceed further. 
Update: Contacted patients mom back and she confirmed that the inhaler is currently in between 200-198 doses 
remaining. Confirmed that the inhaler is spraying properly.  I asked the mother did she prime inhaler before using 
and she insisted that she never knew inhaler needed to be primed. Today was her first time hearing about that. 
This report will remain in the open state pending MedWatch from PhV.  There were no quality issue reported, report
is concerning Adverse Events only. At the time of the report the outcome of the AEs were:   COULDNT WALK : 
recovering/resolving,   FEVER : recovered/resolved,   SHAKING : recovering/resolving,   HEAD JERKY : 
recovering/resolving,   TIRED : recovering/resolving,   MUSCLES HURT : recovering/resolving,   CANNOT STAND 
: recovering/resolving,   TROUBLE BREATHING : recovering/resolving,   UNUSUAL BREATHING : 
recovering/resolving,   PATIENT'S HAND AND FOOT WERE SHIMMYING : recovering/resolving.
Action taken with suspect drugs:
The patient had medical history of ASTHMA(Continuing).
The patient's concomitant medication included  Benadryl(DIPHENHYDRAMINE HYDROCHLORIDE ). 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 123 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The patient's past medication were unspecified.
Lab testsfever: 99.5 degrees F 
This case was considered serious based on the following criteria: (Other Serious (Important Medical Events))
Teva Comment:  SALBUTAMOL - intercurrent event. not related.
Because this is a spontaneous case, regulatory distribution will be handled as though it is a related case.