Source of report and patient demography:
This spontaneous case was initially received on 02-Dec-2015.
The case report was received from a Health Professional in United States and concerns a 7 years old female 
patient.
Weight: 72 pounds, Height: 48 inches
Concurrent medical condition(s), medical and drug history:
At the time of the event the patient concomitantly suffered from G-tube, Tracheostomy, Ventilator, Tegaderm 
allergy, Headaches, Recurrent sino-pulmonary infections, Antibody dysfunction, Bactrim allergy and Chemotherapy.
The patient has a medical history of Brain tumor and Fever.
The following drug history information was reported:
Bactrim (Indication: -, Reaction: Allergy).
For concomitant medication and therapy dates refer to the appropriate report sections.
Suspect drug(s), timing and conditions surrounding the onset of reaction(s)/event(s):
The patient received Hizentra (IMMUNOGLOBULIN HUMAN NORMAL) for indication Unspecified 
immunodeficiency w/predominant T-cell defect and Common variable immunodeficiency w/predominant 
immunoregulatory T-cell D/O on unknown dates, Batch no: 4349300291, Route of administration: Subcutaneous, 
Dose: 4 g weekly.
Additional suspect drug(s):
No additional drugs suspected.
Reaction(s)/event(s) and outcome:
On (b) (6)  after starting / treatment with Hizentra, the patient experienced Shortness of breath (serious, 
hospitalized, outcome: Unknown).
On an unknown date, after starting / treatment with Hizentra, the patient experienced Fever (non serious, outcome: 
Unknown). It was reported that infusion of Hizentra is stopped when patient has a fever or receiving chemotherapy.
Action taken: not reported
Event treatment: not reported
Rechallenge/Dechallenge information: not reported
Reporter's assessment:
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 228 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Company's evaluation and comment:
Seriousness criterion/criteria: Hospitalization.
Listedness: According to the Reference Safety Information, the events Shortness of breath and Fever are listed 
events of Hizentra.
Case Causality: Unassessable. Insufficient information to assess case.
***Follow-up information was received from a nurse on 14-Jan-2016.
On unknown date, after starting treatment with Hizentra, the patient missed about 3 months of medication (non 
serious, outcome: Unknown) due to being very ill (non serious, outcome: Unknown) and trying to start chemo. Also 
the patient was in hospital for 5 days with very bad cold (serious, outcome: Unknown).
For concomitant medication and therapy dates refer to the appropriate report sections.
Medical history included brain tumor removal in (b) (6)
Action taken: Not reported, but therapy with Hizentra was ongoing at the time of the report
Company's evaluation and comment: No change to assessment.
Listedness: According to the Reference Safety Information, the events Missed about 3 months of medication, Very 
ill are unlisted events of Hizentra and Very bad cold are listed event of Hizentra.
Case Causality: Unassessable. Insufficient information to assess case for the events Shortness of breath, Fever 
and Very ill; and, unrelated for the events Missed about 3 months of medication since this is a voluntary act and 
Very bad cold as the patient's underlying condition predispose the patient for infections.