(b) (6) .This report was received from 
clinical trial (b) (6)  EudraCT 
#: 2008-005237-30, and concerns a 09-year-old female subject (subject ID (b) (6)  site id (b) (6) ) from the United 
States.
Initial information was processed along with additional information received on 22-JAN-2015.
The subject's height was 127 centimeters and weight was 23.5 kilograms. The subject's concurrent conditions 
included inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The subject had participated in the RISK/CCFA registry. The subject 
was not currently enrolled in any other registry or clinical trials. The subject was treated with infliximab, recombinant
(lyophilized powder, intravenous) of unspecified dose and frequency initiated on 08-SEP-2011, initiated on 10-MAY-
2013, and initiated on an unspecified date for IBD. Non-company suspect drugs included: salbutamol of unspecified
routem dose, frequency for an unspecified indication. Concomitant medications included dulera, loperamide 
hydrochloride, ibuprofen, nystatin, salbutamol sulfate, amoxicillin, sertraline, certolizumab pegol, adalimumab, 
colestyramine, paracetamol, vitamin B complex, montelukast, colecalciferol, desonide, Nutra source, pediasure, 
Desitin (zinc oxide), psyllium husk with suagr and fluocinonide. On 02-NOV-2015, the subject experienced drug 
induced tremors. On (b) (6)  the subject presented to the emergency department, complaining of shaking. 
The subject experienced short lasting headache and leg weakness while admitted. The subject was reported to 
have taken 2 puffs of albuterol on 21-JAN-2016 (reported as today). The parent deny observing any tremors with 
albuterol administration in the past. This medication side effect was the most likely due to her acute pulmonary 
disease (respiratory obstruction) and subsequent increased albuterol use that had caused her to have a side effect 
of tremulousness. The subject was instructed to discontinue all inhaled medications and caffeinated beverages for 
the next 24 hours, to monitor her response and to return if symptoms worsen or fail to improve. The subject was 
discharged from the hospital in stable condition on(b) (6)  The subject last received infliximab on 10-MAY-
2013. The investigator did not believe the subject's current condition to be related to this exposure. The serious 
adverse event (SAE) of drug induced tremors was neither related nor resulted in surgical procedure. The SAE drug 
induced tremors was not a result of disease progression. The SAE drug induced tremors was not secondary to 
disease progression. The SAE drug induced tremors was not an infection and was mild in severity. Action taken 
with infliximab, recombinant was not applicable and the action taken with salbutamol was not reported. The subject 
had recovered without sequelae from drug induced tremors on (b) (6)  The investigator assessed the event 
as probably related to concomitant medication albuterol and not related to concomitant medications 
cholestyramine, Nutra Source, acetaminophen, B complex vitamins, Pediasure, montelukast, Desitin ointment, 
pysllium husk, with sugar, cholecalciferol, DesOwen (desonide cream), Lidex (fluocinonide), Dulera 
(mometasone/formoterol), Imodium (polyethylene glycol), ibuprofen, topical, Mycostatin (nystatin), Proair HFA 
(albuterol sulfate), amoxicillin and sertraline. The investigator considered the causality between drug induced 
tremors and infliximab, recombinant as not related. The company causality was assessed as not related.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 219 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
This report was serious (hospitalization).
Additional information was received from an investigator on 07-MAR-2016.
It was reported that the subject was treated for a medication related tremor. Additional investigator was added into 
the report.
This case, involving the same patient is linked to 20140404344.