This spontaneous report was received on 18-Nov-2015 from a physician regarding a neonate of unknown gender 
who was transplacentally exposed to generic buprenorphine/naloxone tablet at a dose of 8 mg two times a day on 
an unknown date in 2013 for maternal opioid dependence; buprenorphine 8 mg at a dose of 28 mg daily on an 
unknown date in 2013 for maternal opioid dependence. The neonate was also exposed to nicotine 10 cigarettes 
daily on 10-May-2013 for maternal drug used for unknown indication. 
Relevant maternal medical history included opioid dependence. The mother had a history of six previous 
pregnancies, out of which two was drug exposure during pregnancy, one is miscarriage an one is stillbirth before 
stating on buprenorphine. From an unspecified date in 1994, the mother had a history of smoking 10 cigarettes per 
day and did not quit during the pregnancy. The patient had history of substance abuse on 19-Aug-2010. The patient
did not use alcohol. The patient did not use any herbal supplements. The patient had used over the counter 
medication Tylenol (acetaminophen) for an unknown indication. The patient was on a rehab. She was using 
hydrocodone in the past, but stopped on 18-Aug-2010, 2 days prior beginning her treatment with Suboxone tablet. 
Relevant concomitant medication included nicotine at a dose of 10 cigarettes per day via respiratory route for an 
unknown indication. 
The patient did not have any history of birth defects or complications during her previous pregnancy. The mother s 
highest level of education was 12. 
On unspecified date in May-2013, the mother was reported to be pregnant. Her last menstrual period was on 10-
May-2013 and her estimated date of delivery was on 15-Feb-2014. The gestational age at exposure was since day 
one. Pregnancy was reported as occurring around the time of medical product exposure in this retrospective case. 
On an unknown date in 2013, suspect drug generic buprenorphine was withdrawn. On an unknown date in 2014, 
suspect drug generic buprenorphine/naloxone was withdrawn.
On(b) (6)  the patient gave a birth to a neonate via unknown method of delivery prematurely. The neonate 
was born healthy. The neonate s birth length, height, head circumference were unknown. The neonate s APGAR 
(Appearance, Pulse, Grimace, Activity, and Respiration) score was unknown. Lot/Batch number was not provided. 
The neonate was not breastfed. On (b) (6)  the outcome of the event of maternal exposure during pregnancy 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 233 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
and premature delivery was resolved. A causal relationship between the suspect drugs and the events of maternal 
drug exposure during pregnancy and premature delivery was not reported. Follow up request was granted. No 
further information was provided at the time of this report but no further information was required. This case is 
invalid due to the only suspect medication is generic buprenorphine. This case will be closed.
This case is linked to RB-57167-2013 due to parent-child link and RB-57154-2013 due to same reporter.
Follow-up.1: was received on 20-Jan-2016: This case has now been converted to a valid case as the neonate was 
exposed to Suboxone film.
The follow-up was rreceived from the physician regarding the female neonate. The physician now reports that the 
neonate was additionally exposed transplacentally to Suboxone film at a dose of 28 mg daily from 10-May-2013. 
No further information was provided and no further information was required.  A follow-up request was granted. 
Note: Conflicting information was received upon follow-up on 20-Jan-2016 from the physician. It is now reported 
that the mother was on Suboxone film during pregnancy. In a previous report it was stated that mother was 
swtiched to generic buprenorphine. Generic buprenorphine has been retained in this case as a suspect drug due to 
conflicting reports.
Follow-up.2: was received on 01-Mar-2016 from physician regarding the male neonate (previously reported as 
female neonate). 
The neonate was also exposed to Suboxone (buprenorphine/naloxone) film at a dose of 28 mg daily via 
transmammary  route from 14-Jan-2014, for maternal opioid dependence. Other suspect medication included 
Tylenol at an unknown dose, as needed via transplacental route on an unknown date, for maternal pain (previously 
not reported). 
The mother s highest level of education was college (previously reported as 12) and was a home maker. The 
suspect medication Suboxone film was withdrawn. The neonate weighed 6 pounds 8 ounces and the height was 18
inches. It was reported that the APGAR score was not available and the neonate had no birth defects or 
abnormalities. The neonate didn't experience neonatal abstinence syndrome or any new born complications. The 
neonate was meeting all the developmental milestones at the time of this report. Mother breast fed her baby from 
14-Jan-2014, while she was on Suboxone (previously not reported). On an unspecified date in 2014, breast feeding
was stopped. On an unspecified date in 2014, the outcome of the event of drug exposure via breast milk was 
resolved. A causal relationship between the suspect drug and the event of drug exposure via breast milk was not 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 234 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
reported. No further details were provided at the time of this report. A follow up request was granted and further 
information has been requested.
This case was linked to INDV-087308-2016 due to siblings.