Initially abstract received with invalid information (to identify individual patient) on 21-Dec-2015 and full text received
on 22-Jan-2016 had valid information for case creation.
This literature report (Badke C, Fleming A, Iqbal A, Khilji O, Parhas S, Weinstein J, et al. Rechallenging With 
Intrathecal Methotrexate After Developing Subacute Neurotoxicity in Children With Hematologic Malignancies. 
Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2015 Dec 18) concerns a 08-year-old male patient who received intrathecal (IT) 
methotrexate (MTX) for B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and developed sub-acute neurotoxicity 
resulting in mental status changes, imbalance (falling), fecal incontinence and abnormal behavior.
A chart review (retrospective) was performed to identify patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) or 
ymphoblastic lymphoma (LL) who received IT and/or high dose (HD) methotrexate between Jan-2009 and Dec-
2013 at one of the Hospital of Chicago. Among these patients, those that had neurologic symptoms attributed to 
methotrexate were identified. Patients who had a history of a known neurologic disorder, who received triple IT 
chemotherapy, or whose neurotoxic event could be attributed to another cause were excluded. 312 patients were 
identified with ALL or LL who received IT and/or HD methotrexate (5 g/m^2) as frontline treatment during the 
specified time period. Fourteen patients were excluded because of history of an underlying neurologic disorder, 
receipt of triple IT methotrexate, or incomplete information due to transfer of care. Of the remaining 298 patients, 
21 (7%) experienced neurologic symptoms attributed to methotrexate. The median age of the 21 patients was 10.4 
years (range 5-19 years). The majority of patients (n = 18) had pre-B ALL. All 21 patients were treated according to 
protocols. Seventeen patients (81%) experienced neurotoxicity following IT methotrexate alone, while the other four
patients received both IT and HD methotrexate. While the regimens varied, most of them consisted of induction, 
consolidation, interim maintenance, delayed intensification, and maintenance phases, and a few included a second 
interim maintenance. Three of the 21 (14%) patients were central nervous system positive at diagnosis but all 21 
patients had negative cerebrospinal fluid at the time of the neurotoxic events. Neurotoxic events occurred most 
often during consolidation (n = 5, 24%), followed by induction (n = 4, 19%), interim maintenance with HD 
methotrexate (n = 4, 19%), delayed intensification (n = 4, 19%), and interim maintenance with Capizzi-style 
escalating dose of methotrexate (n = 3, 14%). None of the 21 patients experienced neurotoxicity during the 
maintenance phase of treatment. The type of neurotoxic event varied for each patient, and eight patients 
experienced multiple symptoms. Ten of the 21 patients (48%) had seizures, nine patients (43%) experienced 
weakness of extremities or facial muscles, two patients (10%) had speech disturbance, two patients (10%) had 
mental status changes, and two patients (10%) had paraesthesia. The remaining events consisted of fecal 
incontinence, imbalance, and apnea, which all occurred in the same patient (5%). None of the 21 patients had bone
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 299 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
marrow relapse following the neurotoxic event. Seventeen of the 21 patients were rechallenged with IT 
methotrexate after a median of 12.5 weeks and average of 18.6 weeks (4-51 weeks) following the first event and 
13 of these 17 patients did not experience further neurotoxic events. Interventions prior to or during rechallenge 
included dextromethorphan (10 patients) or leucovorin (three patients). Four patients, all greater than 9 years of 
age, were given a decreased dose of IT methotrexate upon rechallenge (decreased from 15 to 12 mg). Four of the 
17 patients who were rechallenged (24%) experienced a second neurotoxic event. Among the four patients who 
had a second neurotoxic event, rechallenge occurred during delayed intensification (n = 3) and HD methotrexate 
interim maintenance (n = 1), 1-2 weeks after the first event. Three of the patients had received dextromethorphan 
prior to the rechallenge, while one patient had no prophylaxis. After the second event, two of the patients were 
never rechallenged with methotrexate and instead received cytarabine IT. The other two patients were rechallenged
with methotrexate a second time in the second interim maintenance phase and maintenance phase, respectively, 
without further neurotoxic events. All four patients who experienced a second neurotoxic event recovered 
completely without any neurological sequelae.
This case concerns a male patient (patient (b)(6)  of 21) who had B-ALL and who was in high risk (HR) group. His CNS
status at diagnosis was negative. His concomitant medications included acetaminophen, daunorubicin, fluconazole,
methylphenidate, ondansetron, polyethylene glycol and trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole. On an unknown date, he 
received methotrexate. His phase of treatment was induction (InD). Eleven days post IT MTX treatment, he 
developed sub-acute neurotoxicity resulting in mental status changes, imbalance (falling), fecal incontinence and 
abnormal behavior. Action taken with suspect drug regarding events, and outcome of events was unknown. Patient 
was rechallenged twice at 4 weeks after 1st neurotoxic episode but did not develop a second neurotoxic event.
The case was considered to be serious as the events were medically significant.
Medical review comment:
The causality is assessed as possible for the events sub-acute neurotoxicity resulting in mental status changes, 
imbalance (falling), fecal incontinence and abnormal behavior with methotrexate based on its reasonable temporal 
association. Based on available information, causal role of methotrexate cannot be ruled out.
According to the French Imputability Score the causality for all the events with methotrexate is assessed as C1S1I1
(Uncertain).