Source of report and patient demography:
This spontaneous case was initially received on 28-Jan-2016.
The case report was received from a Health Professional in United States and concerns a child male patient.
Weight: 106 pounds, Height: not provided
Linked Case ID(s): US-BEH-2015056585 (Same patient).
Concurrent medical condition(s), medical and drug history:
At the time of the event the patient concomitantly suffered from Gabapentin Drug Allergy and Lyrica Drug Allergy.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 305 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
For concomitant medication refer to the appropriate report sections.
Suspect drug(s), timing and conditions surrounding the onset of reaction(s)/event(s):
The patient received Hizentra (IMMUNOGLOBULIN HUMAN NORMAL) for indication Non familial 
hypogammaglobulinemia on unknown dates, Batch no: 4323700060, Route of administration: Subcutaneous, Dose:
5 g weekly.
Additional suspect drug(s):
No additional drugs suspected.
Reaction(s)/event(s) and outcome:
On 06-Jan-2016, after starting treatment with Hizentra the patient experienced Sinus infection (non serious, 
outcome: Unknown).
On 18-Jan-2016, after starting treatment with Hizentra the patient experienced Pancreatitis (serious, outcome: 
Unknown), and Missed Dose (serious, outcome: Unknown)due to pancreatitis.
Action taken: dose not changed,
Event treatment: not reported,
Rechallenge/Dechallenge information: not applicable.
Reporter's assessment:not reported
Company's evaluation and comment:
Seriousness criterion/criteria: Medically significant.
Listedness: According to the Reference Safety Information, the events Pancreatitis, Sinus infection and Missed 
Dose are unlisted events of Hizentra.
Case Causality: Unrelated due to biological/pharmacological implausibility. The underlying immunedeficiency 
predisposes the patient to infections, and pancreatitis can also be a manifestation of the disease. Doses were 
missed due to pancreatitis.