This case has been created in place of 2015AP006952 which was submitted under an incorrect Initial Receipt Date 
and will be nullified. All information has been transferred to current case.
Reference number 2016AP006479 is a spontaneous case received from GSK (A0662884A) on 06-Apr-2015 with 
IRD of 29-Jan-2015. The case was originally received from a lawyer, pertaining to a female neonate.
This case is linked to Reference Number 2015AP007136 because this is the child of the mother described in the 
other case.
Family medical history included hypertension (on fathers side and also in paternal great grandfather) and congenital
heart disease (paternal half-brother). The mothers history included chronic depression, possible fetal alcohol 
syndrome, cigarette smoker (smoking two packs cut down to 1/2 pack of cigarettes a day from 2002 to 2003), 
multiple pregnancy losses (in (b) (6) (b) (6) (b) (6)  (b) (6)  (b) (6)  (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  (b) (6)  and (b) (6)  attributed to a high risk pregnancy), gestational diabetes, alcohol use 
(12 beers daily until Dec-2002), fatigue, marijuana use, numerous abortions and colic. Paternal medical history 
included nerve dysfunction, chronic bronchitis and increased cholesterol. Concomitant medication included prenatal
vitamins and Tylenol (taken by the patients mother in Aug-2002 for colic then later by the patient for teething pain).
From 1999 to 2003, the patients mother administered Paxil 20mg once day for treatment of depression. On 26-Jul-
2002, the mother was pregnant with a due date of 10-Feb-2003. The mother continued to take Paxil during 
unspecified trimesters of pregnancy; thus the patient was exposed to Paxil via the placenta (DRUG EXPOSURE IN 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 327 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
UTERO). The patient was born on (b) (6)  at (b)(6)  weeks gestation via vacuum assisted vaginal delivery (birth 
weight: 9lbs 2ozs). At birth, the patient had blow-by-oxygen for approximately 30 seconds with stimulation with 
Apgar scores of eight at one and nine at five minutes. She was diagnosed with aortic valvular stenosis 
(CONGENITAL STENOSIS OF AORTIC VALVE), congenital heart valve disorder, congenital aortic anomalyand 
ventricular septal defect (VSD) (CONGENITAL VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT). Examination showed a grade 
III/VI systolic murmur heard over the entire precordium, and a chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with small lung 
volumes, and she was then diagnosed with critical aortic stenosis by echo. The patient was hospitalized on (b) (6)
 She was noted to have poor weight gain (POOR WEIGHT GAIN). She began experiencing tachypnea with 
respiratory rates up to 72 breaths per minute and poor feeding (POOR FEEDING NEONATAL) with emesis two to 
three times per day for the past two days prior to admission. A chest x-ray showed pulmonary hypoplasia. The 
patient was then transferred to another facility for failure to thrive (FAILURE TO THRIVE) and respiratory distress 
(RESPIRATORY DISTRESS NEONATAL). She had intercostals and subcostal retractions at times with occasional 
nasal flaring. A chest x-ray on admission showed gross cardiomegaly with increased pulmonary vascular markings 
bilaterally. The patient was hospitalized on (b) (6)  with critical aortic stenosis/annular valvular and 
supravalvular stenosis, nonrestrictive muscular VSD, mild mitral valve hypoplasia (MITRAL VALVE HYPOPLASIA) 
with single papillary muscle, mild hypoplasia of the aortic valve without discrete coarctation, patent foramen ovale 
(FORAMEN OVALE PATENT), congestive heart failure (CHF) (CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE) and pulmonary 
hypertension (CONGENITAL PULMONARY HYPERTENSION). The patient was treated with normal saline bolus, 
Lasix, and a low dose Dopamine infusion. She did not tolerate the treatment, oxygen saturations dropped to 80 
percent and she experienced increased tachycardia (TACHYCARDIA) poor perfusion and hypotension 
(HYPOTENSION). The patient was intubated for stability and transferred to another facility. On (b) (6)  she 
underwent VSD closure with patch augmentation of the ascending aorta and an aortic valvotomy. During this time, 
the patient developed a urinary tract infection (URINARY TRACT INFECTION). She also had grade II 
vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) to the right kidney (VESICOURETERAL REFLUX). A trans-esophageal echo on (b)(6)
 showed severe aortic stenosis status post valvotomy, mild to moderate aortic insufficiency 
(CONGENITAL INSUFFICIENCY OF AORTIC VALVE), VSD status post patch closure, and depressed left 
ventricular function with generalized hypokinesis. Secondary chest closure was performed on (b) (6)  On (b)(6)
 echo findings included bicuspid aortic valve with mild residual aortic stenosis and severe aortic valve 
insufficiency, dilated left ventricle "that seemed to contract well at this time", moderate to severe biventricular 
hypertrophy (BIVENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY), and mild to moderate isthmal aortic arch hypoplasia. On (b) (6)
 she underwent a Ross-Konno procedure. During the Ross-Konno procedure, the aortic valve was replaced 
with a pulmonary autograft and the pulmonary valve with a 16 mm pulmonary homograft. Secondary chest closure 
was done within 48 hours with subsequent Enterococcus endocarditis on (b) (6)  (ENTEROCOCCAL 
ENDOCARDITIS), requiring 6 weeks of intravenous antibiotics. The patient remained hospitalised and developed 
anaemia (ANAEMIA). She was then transferred to another hospital for a blood transfusion and close monitoring.
On an unknown date, at approximately six weeks of age, the patient was diagnosed with congenital heart disease 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 328 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(CONGENITAL HEART DISEASE NOS). On 24-Oct-2003, an echo showed mild aortic insufficiency, mild-to-
moderate pulmonary insufficiency (PULMONARY VALVE INSUFFICIENCY), and no pulmonary stenosis. 
Lab tests on an unknown date included: ALT: 34, AST: 33, blood bicarbonate: 22 and 26.7, blood calcium: 9.7, 
blood chloride: 99, blood creatinine: 104, blood creatinine: 0.4 and 0.5, blood culture: positive for enterococcus and 
negative at discharge, ABG: stable with a deficit of one, glucose: 87 and 74, magnesium: 2.1, phosphorus: 5.1, 
potassium: 3.6 at discharge, 3.2 and 4.1 on admission, blood pressure: 60 to 84 over 25 to 50 with LAS of 12 to 20,
101/37, 90/54 and 80/100, sodium: 132 at discharge, 141 on admission and 142, BUN: 11 at discharge, 12 on 
admission and 27, height: 76.1cm and 66.5cm between the 10th and 25th percentile, chest tube output: minimal but
remained in place, chest X-ray: on postop day showed a large heart with wet lungs and marked cardiomegaly, 
echocardiogram: showed significant residual aortic insufficiency, biventricular function, cardiomegaly and trivial 
aortic valve insufficiency, mild degree of aortic valve stenosis, normal left to right ventricular performance and 
patent aortic arch with no re-coarctation. There was mild degree of dilatation of the more distal transverse aorta and
aortic isthmus, haematocrit: 26% and 41% on admission, heart rate: 165 to 185, 138, 159 and 140 bpm, oxygen 
saturation: 99 to 100%, platelet count: 334, total protein: 4.6, respiratory rate: 28 and 72 breaths per minute, T-max:
37.8, renal ultrasound: no evidence of obstructive disease, weight: 9.96kg, 7.006kg (approaching the 25th 
percentile) and 5.3kg, white blood cell count: returned to normal, 9.2 at discharge, 4.2 on admission and 16.9. Lab 
tests on (b) (6)  included: Echocardiogram: severe aortic stenosis, mild to moderate aortic insufficiency, VSD 
status post pacth closure, and depressed left ventricular function with generalised hypokinesis. Lab tests on(b) (6)
 included: Echocardiogram: bicuspid aortic valve with mild residual aortic stenosis and severe aortic 
insufficiency, dilated left ventricle that seemed to contract well at this time, moderate to severe biventricular 
hypertrophy and mild to moderate isthmal aortic arch hypoplasia. Lab tests on (b) (6)  included: 
Echocardiogram: thickened and dysplastic aortic valve, severe aortic stenosis, moderate aortic regurgitation, 
moderate left ventricular hypertrophy, and mild to moderate right ventricular hypertrophy. The patient had significant
progression of her overall aortic stenosis. Lab tests on (b) (6)  included: Echocardiogram: mildly improved left 
ventricular function. Lab tests on (b) (6)  included: calcium: 10, chloride: 101, creatinine: 0.3, magnesium: 2, 
phosphorus: 6.3, potassium: 4.5, blood pressure: 80/43, sodium: 137, BUN: 19, body height: 70cm (25th to 50th 
percentile), carbon dioxide: 26, haematocrit: 37%, hemaglobin: 12.1, heart rate: 115, weight: 8.2kg (25th 
percentile). Lab tests on (b) (6)  included: Echocardiogram: Moderate to severe pulmonary regurgitation is 
present; aortic regurgitation is present; right atrial enlargement; mild right ventricular enlargement; tricuspid 
regurgitation. Need for SBE prophylaxis for bacterial endocarditis. Lab tests on (b) (6)  included Echo: showed
mild aortic insufficiency, mild-to-moderate pulmonary insufficiency, and no pulmonary stenosis. Lab tests on 09-
Nov-2004 included: Echocardiogram: Mild aortic regurgitation, an acceleration of flow in the proximal descending 
thoracic aorta, moderate to severe pulmonary regurgitation, diastolic flow reversal in to the branch pulmonary 
arteries, and moderate right ventricular enlargement. Lab tests on 26-Apr-2006 included: Echocardiogram: mild 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 329 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
central aortic insufficiency, unapposed pulmonary insufficiency through her conduit and very mild pulmonary 
stenosis. Lab tests on 18-May-2007 included: Echocardiogram: Moderate to severe pulmonary insufficiency with 
only mild right heart enlargement, mild neoartic insufficiency and left ventricular dimensions that were at the limits 
of normal. Mild aortic insufficiency that was unchanged from (b) (6)  as well as unopposed pulmonary 
insufficiency, mild enlargement of the right atrium and right ventricle. No pulmonary of aortic stenosis nor residual 
VSD were detected, chest x-ray: increased heart size at 55 percent of the thoracic diameter. Lab tests on 27-Aug-
2007 included: oral exam: Oral exam reveals intact dentition with partial restoration of the dentition undertaken. 
Neck is supple without thyromegaly, adenopathy or meningismus, ear, nose and throat examination: Ears are 
shaped and positioned properly. Canals are patent. Tympanic membranes are mobile. Conjunctivae are clear 
without canthal purulence or pallor. There is no appreciable strabismus, ptosis, nystagmus. There is nasal patency 
with a midline septum, gastrointestinal examination: the abdomen is soft without masses, tenderness or 
organomegaly. There is no appreciable flank or vertebral tenderness, neurological examination: neurologically 
appears appropriate with intact cranial nerves 2 to 12. Muscle tone and strength is normal. Sensory system and 
cerebellar function appropriate. Deep tendon reflexes are symmetrical and Babinski sign is negative, orthopaedic 
examination: joints reveal full range of motion without joint swelling or tenderness. Neurologically appears 
appropriate with intact cranial nerves 2 to 12. Muscle tone and strength is normal, physical examination: Exam 
reveals a well-hydrated, well-nourished, pleasant, cooperative preschooler in no distress. Hair distribution is normal.
Skin reveals good turgor without rash, pallor, petechiae, purpura or icterus. Lab tests on 26-Feb-2008 included: 
Echocardiogram: right ventricular hypertrophy.  On 06-Jan-2014, echocardiogram  revealed neoaortic valve with a 
small tail segment of the right coronary cusp.
Treatment for the events included Lasix, Catopril, Gentamicin, Ampicillin, Zantac, Similac, Vercuronium bromide, 
enalapril, DTAP, MMR, IPV, Rantidine, Epinephrine, Dopamine, Milrinone, Nipride, Calcium, Inderal, Vancomycin, 
Digoxin, Lisinopril, Antibiotics, Amoxicillin, Saline, Furosemide and Fentanyl. The action taken with Paxil was not 
applicable. The outcome of the events was unknown.
Follow-up information was received from GSK on 21-Jan-2016 with an IRD of 19-Jan-2016. Lab tests were 
updated. Narrative updated accordingly.