Conjunctivitis. Methotrexate, cytarabine and hydrocortisone.
Spontaneous report received from a physician, which refers to a patient.
The patient had a history of allergies to vancomycin (manifested by edema on the face/lips) and amoxicillin 
(manifested by rash general). The patient is neither a non-smoker nor an alcohol user. The patient has Past drug 
therapy included cytarabine, vancomycin, amoxicillin, iohexol, bacitracin, polymixin, and acetaminophen. 
Concomitant medications included lorazepam, dexamethasone, sodium chloride, docusate syrup, acetaminophen, 
morphine, dextrose, cotrimoxazole, lorazepam, cefipime, linezolid, ranitidine, diphenhydramine, gentamicin, 
immune globulin, gadobutrol, lactated ringers, ondansetron, and fluconazole.
On 01-Jan-2016, the patient started to receive cytarabine (3,000 mg/m2, every 12 hours, intravenous; lot number 
not reported) for AML. The therapy ended on 03-Jan-2016. On the same day of 03 Jan 2016, the patient was given 
Erwinia asparaginase (25000 units/m^2, once, intravenous) for chemotherapy. On 06 Jan 2016, the patient started 
therapy on methotrexate (6 mg), cytarabine (12 mg) and hydrocortisone (6 mg) (once, intrathecal; lot numbers not 
reported) for chemotherapy. From 08-Jan-2016 to 09-Jan-2016, the patient received another dose of cytarabine 
(3000 mg/m^2, every 12 hours, intravenous)On 13-Jan-2016, the patient complained of light sensitivity and eye 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 338 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
pain and was reportedly reluctant to open her eyes. The patient was started on prednisolone acetate drops (Q6; 
dose and route of administration not reported) for concern for conjunctivitis related to previous cytarabine 
administration. It was stated that the next morning, the patient ate her breakfast with her eyes open but 
intermittently rubbed her eyes. 
The physician confirmed that there was no direct drug contact with the patient's eye. Ophthalmology was consulted 
which confirmed that there was no visual loss present and optic discs were normal. Action taken with the suspect 
drugs in response to the event was not applicable. The patient recovered from the event on 16-Jan-2016.
The reporter considered the event possibly related to cytarabine. It was also stated that the event was due to a 
natural sequence of events possibly occurring after high dose cytarabine. The reporter's opinion of causality 
between the event and methotrexate and hydrocortisone was not provided.
Erwinia asparaginase was also considered as suspect.
This case contains cytarabine, an active ingredient that is owned by both Pfizer and Hospira and may have qualified
for regulatory reporting for this product (Pfizer case ID: 2016036605). This case may therefore be a duplicate 
report.
29-Jan-2016: Additional information was received from the same reporter regarding medical history (allergies, 
tobacco usage and alcohol consumption), past drug therapy, concomitant medications, adverse event details 
(event onset date and duration), and cytarabine's administration details (dose, frequency, route of administration, 
therapy dates, duration of therapy and indication); all of which were previously not reported. Additional Hospira 
suspect drugs (methotrexate and hydrocortisone) and non-Hospira suspect (Erwinia asparaginase) were reported. 
Updates were also provided regarding patient weight (changed to 14 kg, previously reported as 14.06 kg) and the 
reporter's opinion of causality for cytarabine (changed to possible, previously reported as probable). All 
aforementioned additional information and updates have been incorporated in the narrative and corresponding data
fields.