Bone pain and diarrhea. Meropenem and vancomycin.
Spontaneous report received from a health professional, which refers to a patient.
Patient's medical history included relapsed pre-B ALL since (b) (6)  hypertension, fungal pneumonia since (b)(6)
 B. cereus infection from (b) (6)  until (b) (6) , seizures since 22-May-2016, hypokalemia since
10-May-2015 and had been intermittent in May-2015. On 05-Jan-2016, the creatinine of the patient was 0.48 mg/dl 
(baseline, an increase indicative of acute kidney injury). Past drug therapy included inotuzumab ozogamicin solution
(lot number: 13-106113, 0.5 mg, once weekly, intravenous) for refractory/relapsed pre B ALL from 07-Jan-2016 
until 03-Feb-2016 and rasburicase solution (3 mg, once, intravenous) for tumorlysis on 05-Feb-0216. Concomitant 
medications included cholecalciferol solution, clonidine transdermal film, senna (Senna Alexandrina) tablet, 
posaconazole tablet, micafungin solution, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablet (Bactrim), levofloxacin solution,
methylprednisolone solution, diphenhydramine solution, acetaminophen solution, levetiracetam solution (Keppra), 
granisetron hydrochloride tablet (Kytril), potassium chloride solution, omprazole suspension, ambisome solution 
(Amphotericin B liposome), nifedipine tablet and enalapril solution. 
On 05-Feb-2016, the patient had an AST increased with AST at 66 IU/L (normal values: 15-46). On(b) (6)
the patient developed acute kidney injury, febrile neutropenia and tooth infection and was presented to the ER and 
was subsequently admitted. On 07-Feb-2016, the patient started treatment with vancomycin solution (400 mg, 
Q18h) and meropenem solution (600 mg, 3 times a week also rpeorted as Q8h) (intravenous, lot number not 
reported), both given as antibiotic. On (b) (6)  the patient experienced bone pain predominantly in left 
shoulder and back. On the same day, the patient experienced diarrhea. The patient was treated with NS (20 mUkg,
bolus), fluids (unspecified, intravenous, dose not reported), and diphenhydramine (dose and route of administration 
not reported). The pain was controlled with methadone and Dilaudid (doses and routes of administration not 
reported). The C. difficile molecular assay of the patient on(b) (6)  showed NEG result. MRI of her hand done
for pain and swelling on(b) (6)  showed diffuse leukemic infiltration. Her pre-existing fungal lung disease was 
also progressing as evidenced by increasing galactomannan titer and intermittent dyspnea requiring oxygen for 
comfort. On (b) (6)  the patient's galactomannan test resulted C POS. A family meeting was held on (b) (6)
 with a multidisciplinary team that included oncology, palliative care, infectious diseases and psychology. In 
view of her extremely poor prognosis due to progressive leukemia and fungal infection, an advanced care plan was 
placed. It was reported that the patient's fungal lung disease, AST increased, and acute kidney injury have not yet 
recovered at the time of report. The family was in agreement with DNR status and continued goal towards comfort 
care. The suspect drugs were continued with no dose change. However, therapy end date of vancomycin and 
meropenem was on 11-Feb-2016 and 17-Feb-2016, respectively. It was reported that the patient's febrile 
neutropenia resolved on (b) (6)  It was also reported that the patient was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to 
(b) (6)  for febrile neutropenia. Outcome of the events bone pain and diarrhea was not recovered/not 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 367 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
resolved. It was also reported that the patient's tooth infection, AST increased , acute kidney injury and pre-existing 
fungal lung disease progressing were still ongoing/not recovered.
The reporter believed that the diarrhea may be related to vancomycin and meropenem. The reporter's opinion of 
causality for the event bone pain in relation to the suspect drugs was not reported. It was reported that the pain and 
fevers were deemed to be due to progressive leukemia.
03-Mar-2016: Additional information received from the same reporter. Frequencies and action taken with the 
suspect drugs were provided. Outcome of diarrhea was updated to not recovered (previously reported as 
recovered). It was reported that the patient's tooth infection, AST increased , acute kidney injury and pre-existing 
fungal lung disease progressing were still ongoing at the time of the report. Therapy end date of Ambisome was 
provided. It was reported that the patient's febrile neutropenia ((b) (6) ) resolved on (b) (6)  It was also 
reported that the patient was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  for febrile neutropenia. This 
information has been incorporated in the narrative and corresponding data fields.