This serious spontaneous report from the United States received on 17-FEB-2016 by the mother of a consumer 
describes the occurrence of Vomiting, Lethargy, Unresponsive to stimuli, Feeling abnormal, and Pallor in a 7 year-
old Caucasian male patient taking Adderall XR (AMPHETAMINE ASPARTATE, AMPHETAMINE SULFATE, 
DEXTROAMPHETAMINE SACCHARATE, DEXTROAMPHETAMINE SULFATE) for Attention deficit/hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD).
Significant past medical history for the patient was not reported. The concurrent medical history for the patient 
included: Mental disability, Anxiety, Depression, Gastrooesophageal reflux disease, Hypermobility syndrome. The 
allergy history for the patient included: Drug hypersensitivity to a lot of medications and Food allergy to shell fish, 
yellow dyes, milk, wheat, coconut, fructose, and red dye. No procedure history for the patient was reported. The 
historical drug use included: Intuniv (METHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE) with the associated adverse 
events of Aggression, Personality disorder, and Pain in extremity and Concerta (METHYLPHENIDATE 
HYDROCHLORIDE) with the associated adverse event of Psychomotor hyperactivity. 
Concomitant medications included: DIPHENHYDRAMINE HYDROCHLORIDE, ESOMEPRAZOLE MAGNESIUM, 
CEFOTAXIME SODIUM. 
The patient commenced treatment with Adderall XR at 11:30 am on 15-FEB-2016. On 15-FEB-2016 the dose was 
10 mg, 1x/day:qd. 
The patient developed the following adverse events: Beginning at 2-2:30 pm on (b) (6)  the patient 
experienced Feeling abnormal, described as began zoning out; Lethargy, described as became lethargic; Pallor, 
described as very pale; Unresponsive to stimuli, described as not responding when spoken to; and Vomiting, 
described as after taking one bite of a hamburger, which they gave him thinking he may need to eat, he had 
vomited. Due to the events, the parents took the patient to the emergency room, with the emergency room staff 
stating this was not the routine reactions seen from Adderall XR. Treatment, if any was unknown. Due to the 
events, therapy with Adderall XR was discontinued on 15-FEB-2016 and the event was recovering/resolving as the 
patient had been better.
This report was considered serious for the following event: Unresponsive to stimuli (Medically Significant). 
The following events were considered non-serious: Vomiting, Lethargy, Feeling abnormal, and Pallor.
A causality assessment was not provided by the reporter.
The following laboratory and/or diagnostic tests were performed:
Test name: Blood test (Range: Low-unknown, High-unknown )
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 197 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
- Test Date: an unknown date
  Test Results: Normal 
Additional information has been requested.
Company comment:The Company Pharmacovigilance Physician has assessed the event of unresponsive to stimuli
as possibly related to Adderall XR. There was a close temporal relationship and a positive dechallenge was 
reported. However this is not a typical presentation of a reaction to Adderall and the patient had only one dose of 
the drug. Possible confounding factors include 1)The patient was also briefly on other CNS stimulants such as 
Intuniv and Concerta right before he started Adderall 2)the past neurological conditions such as anxiety, depression
3)The event is also common in the background pediatric population with ADHD. This single case report does not 
alter the benefit/risk profile of the product.