(b) (6) This report was received from a 
clinicial trial (b) (6)  EudraCT: 
2008-005237-30, and concerns a 10-year-old female (subject (b) (6)  site number: (b) (6) ), from the United States.
The subject's height was 151 centimeters and weight was 48 kilograms. The subject's concurrent condition 
included inflammatory bowel disease. The subject also has participated in the ImproveCareNow (formerly known as
PIBDnet) registry. The subject was not enrolled in any other registry or clinical trial at the time of the report. The 
subject was treated with infliximab, recombinant (lyophilized powder, intravenous) unspecified dose and frequency 
initiated on 30-JUL-2015 for inflammatory bowel disease. Concomitant medications included prednisone or 
equivalent, metronidazole, hyoscyamine, macrogol, vancomycin, sumatriptan, amitriptyline, paracetamol, 
ondansetron, mesalazine, retinol, pediatric multivitamin, ergocalciferol, and diphenhydramine hydrochloride. The 
subject was presented to the hospital on (b) (6)  due to abdominal pain, blood in stool, tachycardia and 
diarrhea and was immediately admitted for a Crohn's flare. The subject underwent electrocardiogram and the result
was normal. The following laboratory studies were significant: red blood cell was 3.71, hemoglobin was 9.3. 
hematocrit was 29.5. The subject was treated with intravenous fluids, amitriptyline, and infliximab. The subject's 
abdominal pain, stool output and oral intake was improved and she was discharged in stable condition on (b) (6)
 The subject's received her last infliximab infusion on 15-DEC-2015. The investigator believed the subject's 
condition was not related to this exposure. The serious adverse event did not result in a surgical procedure and was
not related to surgical procedure. The serious adverse event was not a result of disease progression. The event 
was not infection. The severity of event, Crohn's flare was considered as mild. The dose of infliximab, recombinant 
was not changed. The subject had recovered without sequelae from Crohn's flare in 2016. The investigator 
considered the causality between Crohn's flare and infliximab, recombinant as not related. Company causality was 
assessed as not related. The investigator assessed the event as not related to concomitant medications infliximab, 
Imitrex (sumatriptan), amitriptyline, Tylenol (acetaminophen), pediatric multivitamin, Zofran (ondansetron), 5-ASA 
(oral), Vitamin A and D ointment, Benadryl (diphenhydramine), prednisone or equivalent, Flagyl (metronidazole), 
hyoscyamine sulfate, polyethylene glycol and vancomycin.
This report was serious (hospitalization).
This case, involving the same patient is linked to 20151103063 and 20151103074.
Additional information was received from a physician on 07-MAR-2016.
The investigator had reported that the subject was treated for a Crohn's flare. It was not reported whether the 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 376 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
primary serious adverse event (SAE) of Crohn's flare was secondary to disease progression.
Additional information was received from an investigator on 10-MAR-2016.
The subject had recovered without sequelae from Crohn's flare on (b) (6)  (previously stop date was reported
as 2016).