(b) (6) .This report was received from 
physician via clinical trial (b) (6)
 EudraCT #: 2008-005237-3 and concerns a 6-year-old female patient (patient ID: (b) (6)  site number: (b) (6) ) 
from the United States. Not reported.
Initial information was processed along with the additional information received on 01-MAR-2016.
The patient's height was 110 centimeters and weight was 20.5 kilograms. The subject also had participated in the 
(b) (6)  (formerly known as (b) (6) ) registry. The patient's concurrent conditions included inflammatory 
bowel disease. The patient was treated with infliximab, recombinant (lyophilized powder, intravenous) of 
unspecified dose and frequency initiated on 22-AUG-2013 to 09-SEP-2013 for inflammatory bowel disease. Non-
company suspect drugs included: Anakinra, methotrexate, adalimumab and prednisone (dose, route, frequency, 
formulation was not provided) of unspecified dose and frequency initiated on unspecified date for unspecified 
indication. Concomitant medications included paracetamol, sodium fluoride, cholecalciferol, loperamide and folic 
acid. It was stated that the subject with a history of very early onset inflammatory bowel disease who was admitted 
at an outside hospital on (b) (6)  for a for 5 days of abdominal pain, non-bloody diarrhea and non-bloody non-
bilious emesis. The subject's symptoms began on 13-JAN-2016 when she began experiencing abdominal pain and 
increased stooling with minimal oral intake. The subject was seen at her local emergency department where her lab
results showed a normal white blood cell count, elevated C-reactive protein of 2.33 (reference range: 0-0.9 mg/dl) 
and elevated sedimentation rate of 18 (reference range: 0-18 mm/hr). The subject was admitted to their inpatient 
service for hydration and for a follow-up on infectious stool studies during admission. The subject continued to be 
afebrile and upon examination she was noted to have a soft abdomen without significant tenderness. On (b) (6)
 her infectious stool studies returned positive for rota virus and she was diagnosed with rotavirus 
gastroenteritis. The subject was transferred to the gastro intestinal service on the same day for further 
management of her symptoms. The subject received intravenous fluids and continued on a regular diet. On (b)(6)
, she was examined for an intravenous infiltration on her left arm and wrist which became mildly swollen. 
The subject reported no pain at the site and a new intravenous was placed. The subject was continued to have 
diarrhea and small cramping to the stomach before needing to move bowels. The subject was started on probiotics 
for her rotavirus gastroenteritis on (b) (6)  During her hospitalization, she consistently appeared well-
hydrated, her diarrhea volume gradually slowed and her oral intake improved which resolved her abdominal pain 
and emesis. The subject was discharged on (b) (6)  with a plan to continue on her home medications and 
taking probiotics daily. On 19-FEB-2016, she followed up with her physician at the out patient gastro intestinal clinic 
with all symptoms resolved. The subject had no other lab work done prior to discharge. The serious adverse event 
was neither resulted in nor related to a surgical procedure. The serious adverse event was not a result of disease 
progression and was a rotavirus infection. The serious adverse event was moderate in intensity. The subject was 
currently enrolled in other registry or clinical trial improve (b) (6)  (formerly known as (b) (6) ) registry. The 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 380 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
investigator felt that this event was not related to the patient's past exposure to infliximab. The investigator 
assessed the event as not related to concomitant medications cholecalciferol, loperamide, folic acid, sodium 
fluoride, and acetaminophen and possibly related to concomitant medications anakinra, methotrexate, Humira 
(adalimumab) and prednisone or equivalent. Action taken with anakinra, methotrexate and prednisone was not 
reported and action taken with infliximab, recombinant and adalimumab was not applicable. The patient had 
recovered without sequelae from rotavirus gastroenteritis on 19-FEB-2016. The investigator considered the 
causality between rotavirus gastroenteritis and infliximab, recombinant as not related. The company causality was 
assessed as not related. 
This report was serious (hospitalization).