This spontaneous report was received from a consumer or other non health professional (patient's father) and 
concerns a 7-month-old male patient from the United States: 017483472A.
The patient's weight was 16 pounds and height was not reporetd.The patient did not have any other medical history.
The patient was treated with paracetamol (unspecified, oral) 3.75 ml;once; initiated on 17-JAN-2016 for teething 
pain.  Concomitant medications were not reported.
On an unspecified date, the patient's father reported that they administered their son with Children's Tylenol, once 
at last night and measured it into the measuring cup from the Children's Tylenol and then sucked it up into the 
syring from the Infant's Tylenol (drug use in unapproved population and off label use). It was asked that whether the
dosing to be the same in both the products (Children's and Infant's Tylenol) and whether the acetominophen was 
the same active ingredient in both the children's and infants Tylenol.
Treatment with Children's Tylenol was withdrawn on 17-JAN-2016.
The outcome for drug use in unapproved population and off label use was not reported.
This report was not serious.
Additional information received from Central Complaint Vigilance on 23-JAN-2016 and 26-JAN-2016.
The product name was updated from CHILDREN'S TYLENOL to TYLENOL CHILDRENS SUSPENSION and 
formulation was updated from unspecified to suspension. The batch number of product was unspecified.
This report was associated with a product complaint and the product complaint number was 10000576050.
The suspected product quality complaint associated with adverse event (drug use in unapproved population and off
label) had been not confirmed that it was not manufacturing related based on the PQC evaluation/investigation 
performed.
Revision to the information received on 18-JAN-2016. Upon review the following corrections were made: 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 420 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The event drug use in unapproved population was updated with the event drug use in unapproved age group. 
The event of wrong technique in drug usage process was added, since the consumer measured it into the 
measuring cup from the CHILDREN'S TYLENOL and then sucked it up into the syringe from the INFANT'S 
TYLENOL.
The outcome for the event  drug use in unapproved age group and wrong technique in drug usage process was not
reported.