Source of report and patient demography:
This spontaneous case was initially received on 22-Feb-2016.
The case report was received from a Health Professional in the United States and concerns a male patient.
Weight: 28 pounds, Height: 35 inches
Linked Case ID(s): US-BEH-2015052782 (Same patient).
Concurrent medical condition(s), medical and drug history:
At the time of the event the patient concomitantly suffered from Albuterol allergy.
The following drug history information was reported:
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 371 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Albuterol (Indication: -, Reaction: Drug allergy).
For concomitant medication and therapy dates refer to the appropriate report sections.
Suspect drug(s), timing and conditions surrounding the onset of reaction(s)/event(s):
The patient received Hizentra (IMMUNOGLOBULIN HUMAN NORMAL) for indication Selective deficiency 
immunoglobulin g subclasses on 22-Jul-2015 - unknown stop date, Batch no: 4323800086, Route of administration:
Subcutaneous, Dose: 2 g every week.
Additional suspect drug(s):
No additional drugs suspected.
Reaction(s)/event(s) and outcome:
On (b) (6)  the patient experienced RSV (serious, hospitalized, outcome: Unknown) and Annod virus (2-4 to 
2-9)(serious, hospitalized, outcome: Unknown) and hospitalized  until (b) (6)
Action taken: Ongoing.
Event treatment: Not reported.
Rechallenge/Dechallenge information: Not applicable.
Reporter's assessment: Not reported.
Company's evaluation and comment:
Seriousness criterion/criteria: Hospitalization.
Listedness: According to the Reference Safety Information, the events RSV and Annod virus are unlisted events of 
Hizentra.
Case Causality: Unrelated. The patient was at risk of infections due to underlying Selective deficiency of 
immunoglobulin g subclasses.
***Follow up received on 09-MAR-2016 from HCP. 
Causality Assessment: Not related
Alternative etiology for events is viral pneumonia (Serious, Outcome: Recovering)/patient condition. Annod virus 
was clarified to be an Adenovirus. 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 372 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Event Outcome: resolving
Event Treatment: symptomatic
Company's evaluation and comment:
Seriousness criterion/criteria: No change to assessment.
Listedness: According to the Reference Safety Information, the events Viral pneumonia, RSV and Adenovirus are 
unlisted events of Hizentra.
Case Causality: No change to assessment.