Published Literature
Case Report
Events: Meningoencephalitis, Cryptococcus neoformans, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Low glucose level
The case presented is that of a 9-year-old female with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), diagnosed in March 
2006. In the months prior to diagnosis, the patient had a history of prurigo, arthralgia, edema, and limitation of the 
movement of limbs. Physical examination revealed an ulcerated lesion on the lateral border of the tongue and 
Raynaud's phenomenon involving the hands and feet. With these clinical findings, laboratory tests were requested 
and the results supported the diagnosis of SLE. Treatment was initiated with prednisone, naproxen, 
acetaminophen, furosemide, digoxin, omeprazole, and cyclophosphamide.
Three years after diagnosis, the patient was admitted to the emergency department with a 2-week history of 
uncontrolled fever, retro-orbital and frontal oppressive headache, malaise, fatigue, anorexia, drowsiness, vomiting, 
diarrhea, and epigastric pain. Tests showed a urinary tract infection, and ceftriaxone was initiated.
The patient returned to the emergency room 3 days after discharge with a continuous headache, fever, and 
diplopia. A physical examination showed 3-mm reactive pupils, limitation of abduction of the right eye, Kernig and 
Brudzinski signs, and level C5-C7 hyporeflexia, with preserved sensory function.
Meningeal syndrome was diagnosed, and the patient under-went ahead magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that 
showed five hyperintense lesions located in the caudate nucleus on FLAIR and T2 sequences, bilateral edema, and
increased intraparenchymal intensity suggestive of an infectious process and compatible with the typical 
perivascular hypoxic-ischemic lesions seen in cryptococcosis.
A lumbar puncture was performed; cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination showed pleocytosis (0.22 x 10 to the 
power of 6 leukocytes/l, 90% neutrophils), low glucose level (31 mg/dl), increased protein level (105.1 mg/dl), and 
negative India ink stain. The patient was started on treatment with ceftriaxone, vancomycin, and fluconazole.
CSF culture reported Cryptococcus (C) neoformans 2 days later, and amphotericin B (1 mg/kg/day) was added. 
Another sample of the CSF was used for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect mycobacterial infection 
because of a family history of tuberculosis (TB). Positive PCR results were reported for IS6110, MTP40, and 
HSP65 Mycobacterium(M) tuberculosis gene fragments. Due to the above laboratory results, a specimen was 
taken for acid-fast bacillus smear and culture, and both results were negative. A purified protein derivative (PPD) 
skin test was performed, and the result was also negative. Chest X-ray showed no chronic granulomatous disease 
patterns and no evidence of infiltrates or cavitations. The results demonstrated a simultaneous opportunistic neuro-
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 494 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
infection caused by two microorganisms, and Anti-tuberculosis treatment with isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, 
and ethambutol was started and maintained over 4 months without toxicity. Antifungal treatment was continued for 
25 days and the patient was discharged after making a complete recovery, with normal neurological examinations 
and normal control tests.
Authors' Comments:
We present the case of a 9-year-old female with SLE, treated with prednisone and cyclophosphamide, who was 
admitted to the emergency department with a 2-week history of fever, headache, malaise, fatigue, and diplopia 3 
years after diagnosis. Physical examination showed limitation of abduction of the right eye, Kernig and Brudzinski 
signs, and hyporeflexia. Magnetic resonance imaging showed hyperdense lesions located in the caudate nucleus, 
and lumbar puncture showed pleocytosis, a low glucose level, and increased protein level. Cerebrospinal fluid 
culture identified C. neoformans and PCR detect M. tuberculosis. Treatment was started with isoniazid, rifampin, 
pyrazinamide, ethambutol, and amphotericin B. We found two similar reports in adults, but no data were found for 
either pediatric or SLE patients.
Complement deficiencies, cytokine and cellular abnormalities, the presence of auto-antibodies, neutrophil, 
lymphocyte, and splenic dysfunction, as well as immunosuppressive and cytotoxic medications have all been cited 
to play major roles in infections in SLE patients.
We have reported a rare case of central nervous system (CNS) co-infection in a child with SLE. This shows the 
importance of considering many etiologic possibilities when an immunocompromised patient, primary or not, 
presents to the emergency room. Further, we must be alert to opportunistic agents in this group of patients.