This serious post marketing surveillance report from the United States received on 10-MAR-2016 by a physician, 
via (b) (6)  describes the occurrence of an Infusion related reaction consisting of Stridor, 
Hypotension, and Pyrexia in a 5 year-old Black male patient administered idursulfase for Mucopolysaccharidosis II.
The past medical history for the patient included: Respiratory distress, Anaphylactic reaction, Pyrexia. The 
concurrent medical history for the patient included: Muscle contracture, Cognitive disorder, Carpal tunnel syndrome,
Abnormal behaviour, Drug hypersensitivity, Mitral valve incompetence. No allergy history for the patient was 
reported. The patient procedure history included: Surgery. 
Concomitant medications included: DIPHENHYDRAMINE, PARACETAMOL, METHYLPREDNISOLONE. 
The patient commenced treatment with idursulfase 12 mg, 1x/week, on 14-DEC-2014. 
The patient developed the following adverse events: On (b) (6)  the patient experienced an Infusion related 
reaction consisting of Stridor, Hypotension, and Pyrexia. The patient was hospitalized for further observation on (b)(6)
. Treatment if any was unknown and the event resolved on (b) (6)
The action taken with the primary suspect therapy idursulfase was dose not changed. 
This report was considered serious for the following events: Infusion related reaction (Hospitalization), Stridor 
(Hospitalization), Hypotension (Hospitalization), Pyrexia (Hospitalization). 
The investigator assessed the events as mild in intensity and as Probable relation to idursulfase.
The following laboratory and/or diagnostic tests were performed:
Test name: Body temperature (Range: Low-Unknown , High-Unknown )
- Test Date: (b) (6)
  Test Results: Fever 
Test name: Laboratory test (Range: Low-N/A , High-N/A )
- Test Date: (b) (6)
  Test Results: Prominent epiglottis, poor quality film 
Test name: Chest X-ray (Range: Low-N/A , High-N/A )
- Test Date: (b) (6)
  Test Results: Normal 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 484 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Additional information is not expected.
Company comment: The company Pharmacovigilance Physician has assessed the infusion related reactions of 
Stridor, Hypotension, and Pyrexia as possibly related to idursulfase. Although information is limited, the events were
reported to have developed in response to a product infusion and considered probably related to the product by the 
investigator.  Hypotension and pyrexia are part of the known product safety profile.  Hence, this case meets the 
company criterion for an infusion-related reaction (i.e., a possibly related event occurring within 24 hours of 
infusion). Such reactions have been observed in close temporal association with infusions in clinical studies and 
post-marketing surveillance.  However, these assessments are confounded by the patient's past medical history of 
respiratory distress and pyrexia as well as his underlying MPS II. Patients with MPS II frequently have significant 
impairments in lung function due to deposition of GAG in the airway, and are at increased risk for respiratory 
disorders.  The patient's epiglottis was noted to be prominent on the day of the events. This single case report does
not alter the benefit/risk profile of the product.