Patient would not stand up, abdominal pain like cramps, nausea and RA flare. Methotrexate.
Spontaneous report received from a consumer via Amgen (US-AMGEN-USASP2016036517), which refers to a 
patient.
Patient's medical history included juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Concomitant medications included ibuprofen 
(Motrin), paracetamol (Tylenol), ondansetron (Zofran), folic acid, nabumetone, and multivitamins.
On an unknown date, the patient started treatment with methotrexate injection (dose, frequency, route of 
administration and lot number not reported) for an unknown indication. On an unknown date in 2013, the patient 
began therapy with Enbrel (25 mg, subcutaneous, twice weekly) for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. On an unknown 
day in Oct 2014, the patient developed rheumatoid arthritis flare as she would not stand up, also reported as 
dysstasia. Subsequently, the patient was hospitalized for pain management. On 15 Mar 2016, the patient 
experienced abdominal pain like cramps. On an unknown date, the patient experienced an on and off nausea 
especially after methotrexate injections.
Investigations including examinations, laboratory and diagnostic data, and action taken with the suspect drugs were
not reported. Treatment for the events rheumatoid arthritis and dysstasia included unspecified pain management. 
No treatment information was reported for the other events. The outcome for the events of patient would not stand 
up and RA flare was recovered/resolved on an unknown date. The outcome of the event abdominal pain was 
resolving while outcome of the event nausea was reported as ongoing. It was unknown if Enbrel was still being 
administered at the time of this report.
The reporter's opinion of causality between the events and the suspect drugs was not reported.
Enbrel was also considered as a suspect drug.
This case contains methotrexate an active ingredient that is owned by both Pfizer and Hospira and may have 
qualified for regulatory reporting for this product (Pfizer Case ID: 2016181880). This case may therefore be a 
duplicate report.