MHRA REQUESTED EVENT
This case, BMRN case number US-2016-109327, is a report from the United States, referring to an 8 Years-old 
Male subject (ID # (b) (6) ) participating in the BioMarin sponsored Naglazyme Clinical Surveillance Program
(CSP).  An investigator reported the event.
The subject's past medical history included cervical spinal stenosis, spinal cord compression, obstructive sleep 
apnea (OSA) and restrictive lung disease secondary to mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS).  The subject had no history 
of myelopathy.  The subject's concurrent conditions included Mucopolysaccharidosis VI. The subject had no known 
allergies.  Concomitant medications included ascorbic acid/cyanocobalamin/ ergocalciferol/folic 
acid/iron/nicotinamide/pyridoxine hydrochloride/retinol/riboflavin/thiamine hydrochloride/tocopheryl acetate, 
paracetamol, and macrogol.  Pre-medication included loratadine.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 511 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On 27-MAR-2008, a head X-ray showed a likely spinal stenosis at T12-L1.  A scoliosis series revealed a grade II 
anterolisthesis at what appeared to be at the level of T12-L1 with a hypoplastic L1 vertebral body.  There may be 
jumped perched facets.  The facets did not articulate normally at this level but rather lie with the inferior facets of 
T12 directly on top of the superior aspect of the superior facets of L1 and therefore this was not articulation.  Also 
there was very likely spinal stenosis at T12-L1 and conus compression as a result was impossible.  Further work-up
was recommended.
On 28-FEB-2011, the subject initiated treatment with Naglazyme (20 mg, qw, Intravenous).  The lot number for 
Naglazyme was unknown. The most recent dose of Naglazyme was administered on 05-FEB-2016.
On 14-NOV-2011, the subject was diagnosed with MPS VI worsening.  A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the 
spine showed generalized changes in the spine including congenital stenosis, C1 hypoplasia, thoracolumbar 
kyphosis, and dysostosis - all consistent with mucopolysaccharidosis; cervical cord compression at the C1 level, 
predominantly related to ligamentous thickening and hypoplasia of the C1 posterior arch; interval development of 
central high signal in the cervical cord, possibly representing a "pre-syrinx" lesion.  No significant change in 
appearance of the thoracolumbar kyphosis was noted.  On 21-AUG-2012, an MRI of the spine showed no evidence
of interval development of syrinx with moderate to severe spinal stenosis in the proximal cervical region.  On 17-
JUN-2013, an MRI of the spine showed no evidence of interval development of the syrinx or myelomalacia with 
moderate spinal stenosis at the craniocervical junction and proximal cervical spine.  On 19-SEP-2015, an MRI of 
the spine showed spine manifestations of mucopolysaccharidosis.  There had not been interval development of 
myelomalacia.  On 19-DEC-2015 an MRI of the spine showed spinal manifestations of mucopolysaccharidosis.
There was stable appearance of the spine since the prior exam.  In particular, there had not been interval 
development of myelomalacia.
On (b) (6)  the subject was hospitalized and underwent a halo application and removal, foramen magnum 
decompression, and C1 laminectomy for decompression due to a severe cord compression (SPINAL CORD 
COMPRESSION).  The subject was found to have progressive stenosis at the level of the foramen magnum and 
upper cervical cord.  The operation went well without complication.  The subject was extubated following the 
procedure and initially required oral airway and bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) but then transitioned to 
nasal cannula on arrival to the pediatric care unit (PICU) and weaned to room air by that evening at 1200.  During 
the hospital course, the subject was noted to have intermittent barky cough and some complaints of difficulty 
breathing which were not associated with changes in saturation.  Good breath sounds were noted.  The cough 
improved with diazepam and was attributed to anxiety.  On (b) (6)  a cervical spine radiograph was 
performed (results not provided).  Additional treatment for the event included baclofen and oxycodone 
hydrochloride.  No action was taken with Naglazyme due to the event.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 512 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The outcome of the event was reported as recovered/resolved on (b) (6)   On the same date, the subject 
was discharged from the hospital in good condition.  Principal discharge diagnosis included cervical stenosis status 
post (S/P) foramen magnum decompression and C1 laminectomy.  Secondary diagnosis included MPS VI, OSA, 
kyphosis, joint stiffness of hand, multi-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) from nares.
The investigator assessed the event of SPINAL CORD COMPRESSION as not related to treatment with 
Naglazyme. No other etiological factors were reported. 
Additional information has been requested and, if received, the report will be updated.