This clinical Itrial case concerns a 50-year old male patient of 
Asian origin. Patient had no medical history of co. morbid cardiac condition. The patient had reported to the site on 
28-Jul-2007 with cough and haemoptysis and was admitted. The patient was diagnosed to have small cell lung 
cancer with extensive liver metastases. His medical history also included coagulation abnormality. Laboratory tests 
on 04-Aug-2007: serum Na 111 meq/L and 130 meq/L (normal 136-145), serum K 4.6 meq/L (3.5-52). 
Concomitant medications of the patient included: flupentixol decanoate as antidepressant, ipratropium 
bromidelsalbutamol nebulization, vitamin K for raised prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time 
(coagulation abnormality), diclofenac sodium for pain, diazepam for insomnia, amoxicillin sodium/clavulanate 
potassium, metronidazole and amikacin for antibiotic treatment, haloperidol and lorazepam as sedative therapy, 
lactulose/galactose/lactose as laxative, tranexamic acid for coagulation abnormality, allopurinol for hyperuricemia, 
ursodeoxycholic acid as haematoprotective and for coagulation abnormality, theophylline for bronchodilatation, 
metocloprarnide hydrochloride as antiemetic therapy, pantoprazole for gastritis prophylaxis, sorbilene (enzyme and 
carminative), as hepatoprotective, minerals and vitamins, chiorhexidine mouthwash. The patient was receiving 
supplemental therapy with folic acid, vitamin B12 and dexamethasone. On 06-Aug-2007 the patient first received 
pemetrexed (Alimta) 880mg intravenously (IV) and carboplatin 715mg IV (cycle one), for the treatment of small cell 
lung cancer with extensive liver metastases. This was also the only dose of the study drugs administered to the 
patient The, patient's preexisting coagulation abnormality complicated after administration of the study drugs. In 
the first week of Aug-2007 the patient showed symptoms of hyponatraemia and upper respiratory tract infection. On 
an unknownidate within. days of receiving the study dru s the patient developed decompensatory liver disease 
(not considered as serious event). Laboratory tests on .  rothrombine time 34 seconds (normal 12), 
partial thrornboplastin time 92 seconds (normal 31). On at 09:30 hours the patient developed severe 
respiratory distress and drowsiness. On follow-up, acute respiratory distress has been captured as an event with 
serious criteria life threatening. He was immediately treated with moist oxygen inhalation, hydrocortisone hydrogen 
succinate, furosemide, unspecified nebulization and dexamethasone. However, the condition of the patient kept 
det Ong and the patient developed tachycardia and hypotension around 10:30 hours. Dobutamine infusion was 
started to control the condition of the patient. The outcome of the acute respiratory distress was unresolved. The 
patient developed signs of acute left ventricular failure with cardiogenic shock around 12:30 hours. The patient 
could not be revived and expired at 14:10 hours dridays after study drugs administration). The cause of death 
has been recorded as acute left ventricular failure (with cardiogenic septic shock). An autopsy was not performed. 
The patient only received the first cycle of the study drugs and the events occurred within IOW of study drug 
administration. As per the investigator since the patient had no pre-existin cardiac co morbid condition and the 
acute left ventricular failure with cardiogenic shock developed with iii of study drug administration, the 
event was related to the study drugs, but not to the protocol procedures. The investigator also stated that 
cardiogenic shock was associated with acute ventricular failure, so, there was no need to capture it as a separate 
event. In the opinion of the investi g ator, the event of acute respiratory distress was related to the study drugs 
because the event developed of study, drug administration and progressed to cardiac failure. The 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 2 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
event of acute respiratory distress was not considered related to protocol procedures. As per the investigator, the 
acute respiratory distress may have been related to the underlying extensive malignancy, as the patient had been 
suffering from the underlying malignancy for many years. Update 10-Nov-2007: Data reconciliation notification 
received on 06-Nov-2007: added investigator number. Update 24-Nov-2007: no new information received from the 
study investigator. Update 06-Mar-2008: Additional information received from the study investigator on 05-Mar-
2008: Added new life threatening related event of acute respiratory distress. Relevant fields and narrative updated 
accordingly. Update 14-Mar-2008: additional information received from the site on 08-Mar-2008: amended acute 
respiratory stress syndrome outcome to not recovered; added no autopsy was performed; narrative and relevant 
fields updated. Update 28-Mar-2008: Additional information received from the investigator on 27-Mar-2008: Added 
coagulation abnormality as medical history and in narrative stated it complicated after study drugs were given, 
added indication for use (IFU) for ursodeoxycholic acid and changed IFU for vitamin K, added probable relatedness 
to underlying malignancy for acute respiratory distress to causality statement in narrative. Updated relevant fields, 
narrative and PSUR comment. Edit 01-Apr-2008: Upon internal review on 01-Apr-2008: Lilly analysis statement 
updated by medical review.