This regulatory case, reported by a physician via a sales representative, with additional information from the 
regulatory agency, concerns a 78 year old male patient. Past medical history included non-small-cell lung cancer, 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, mud cardiac failure treated with unspecified angiotensin-converting enzyme 
, and edema treated with unspecified diuretics and the patient had no hematological disorder. Concomitant 
were folic acid, vitamin 612 and dexamethasone as premedication, budese ., 0.-forrnoterol and 
tiotropium bromide for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The patient received pemetrexed (Marta) 1000 mg 
every three weeks, intravenously on 17-Jul-2007 for second-line non-small-cell lung cancer. On 17-Jul-2007, 
pemetrexed was administered to the patient in the morning and in the afternoon patient had asthenia, dyspnoea, 
extreme fatigue and a feeling of sudden death_ The reporting physician stated that the dyspnoea was possibly 
related to the anxiety. In the reporting physician's opinion the feeling of sudden death was a symptom of the 
anxiety. The regulatory agency also reported that the patient experienced bronchospasm, fear of death and chest 
pressure on unspecified dates. All these adverse events cause anxiety to the patient. Pemetrexed was discontinued 
GO 1144-2007 as requested by the patient. The patient recovered from these events on 20-Jul-2007. No 
tion on corrective treatment was provided. On 17-Aug-2007, the patient refused to take pemetrexed and the 
physician started treatment with docetaxal. The outcomes of the anxiety, bronchospasm, fear of death and chest 
pressure were not reported. The events were considered serious by the reporting physician and regulatory 
authority. The reporting physician saw the patient when the serious events were completely controlled one month 
after the adverse events had occurred. Lot number was A341028. The physician stated that he was not sure of 
the possibility of relatedness to pemetrexed. The initial case and the follow-up information received on 27-aug-
2007 and on 28-aug-2007 were entered at the same time. Update 16-Oct-2007: additional information received 
hem Os mulatory agency 09-Oct-2007 and 11-Oct-2007 (processed at the same time): added patient age, 
modiatithistory, concomitant medication doses, start dates and indications for use, pemetrexed frequency, stop 
date and drug action taken, 000 events of bronchospasm, fear of death and chest pressure, upgraded the events 
to serious as per regulatory agency and initial reporter. Updated relevant fields, narrative and PSUR comment. 
21-Nov-2007: Additional information received on 12-Nov-2007 from the initial reporter. Confirmed that 
permetrexed was changed to docetaxel. Added to narrative possible relationship between dyspnoea and anxiety. 
Removed event feeling of sudden death as it was reported as a symptom of the anxiety. Listedness reassessed 
and de  -  o   Relevant fields and narrative updated.