This non-interventional post-marketing study (H3E-US-B001) case regards a 56-year-old African American male. 
Medical history included gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, chronic pain, deep vein thrombosis, coronary artery disease, 
hypertension (chronically overmedicated), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, congestive heart failure, 
degenerative disc disease (lumbar 5 - sacral 1), diabetes mellitus, chronic anemia, hypoxia, and a limited infection 
of the left upper lobe. Concomitant medications included folic acid, vitamin B12, dexamethasone, 
fluticasone/salmeterol, acetylsalicylic acid, carvedilol, colchicine, escitalopram, megestrol, oxycodone 
hydrochloride, oxycodone hydrochloride/paracetamol, senna alexandrina, warfarin, tizanidine, and gabapentin. On 
31Jul08, the patient first received pemetrexed disodium (Alimta) 500 mg/m2 intravenously (IV), for the treatment of 
non-small cell lung cancer. Prior to the event, pemetrexed was last received on 02Oct08, Laboratory values 
included white blood cell count (WBC) 6.0, hemoglobin (Hgb) 9.2, platelet count (Plt) 165, and red blood cell count 
(RBC) 2.63. Onallipindays after last receiving pemetrexed, the patient was admitted to the hospital after 
sudden loss of consciousness and being found unresponsive in his home by his sister. He presented with hypoxia, 
hypotension (blood pressure 73/50, improving to 109/78), hypokalemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukopenia. 
Laboratory values included WBC 4.2, Hgb 9.2, Plt 23, RBC 2.75, potassium 2.8, and creatinine 1.23. 
Electrocardiogram revealed sinus rhythm with premature atrial complexes and no evidence of acute ischemia 
though there were some inverted T-waves in the lateral leads. Chest x-ray showed right basilar hilar fibrotic 
changes with right sided lung volume loss with trachea shift. Brain scan showed no acute intracranial abnormality. 
His blood pressure medications were held. On NM his hypotension resolved (blood pressure 132/81). He 
had worsened anemia. Laboratory values included WBC 2.9, Hgb 7.4, Plt 13, and international normalized ratio 
2.4. His opiate levels of 300 ng/ml confirmed a narcotic overdose. Chest computerized tomogram revealed a right 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 512 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
lower lobe mass; partial consolidative opacities involving right lower lobe, total right middle lobe collapse; partial 
atelectatic consolidation right upper lobe; infection in the left upper lobe; a port/central line thrombus of right distal 
subclavian vein; and probable small hepatic hemangioma. Ona11111 the patient recovered from the narcotic 
overdose. On OM an echocardiogram revealed mild left ventricular dysfunction with ejection fraction of 35% 
to 40%; diastolic dysfunction; and mild mitral regurgitation and tricuspid regurgitation were noted. He had a right 
subclavian port infection. Blood cultures revealed gram-positive cocci (methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus) 
confirming sepsis. The patient was treated with vancomycin, packed red blood cells, platelets, fresh frozen plasma, 
and potassium. The port was removed without complications and the patient recovered from the sepsis. The 
admission was complicated with acute renal failure superimposed on his chronic kidney disease, associated with 
the line sepsis. The patient was also noted to have complications with a peripherally inserted central catheter which 
required surgery on his left arm. No further information was provided. On_ the patient recovered from the 
leukopenia (WBC 4.8). 0ng the patient recovered from the worsened anemia (Hgb 13.9, RBC 4.18). On 
1111111111111the patient was recovering from the thrombocytopenia (Plt 166). His potassium was 3.1 (additional labs 
are available in the source documents). The patient had seen multiple specialists and was medically stabilized. He 
was able to be discharged to an extended care facility. Study therapy continued. In the opinion of the study 
investigator, the events of hypotension, worsened anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, and sepsis were possibly 
related to pemetrexed, but not related to protocol procedures. The event of narcotic overdose was assessed as not 
related to pemetrexed or protocol procedures. The investigator stated the syncope was likely due to the 
mechanism of hypotension secondary to blood pressure medications and sepsis; anemia and diarrhea (prior to 
admission) with probable GI bleeding (prior history not mentioned in current admission medical records or 
discharge summary); and/or a possible narcotic effect. The investigator stated the pemetrexed caused the platelet 
drop and WBC drop which contributed to a GI bleed and sepsis. This case is associated with US200811005786 
and US200810000689, which are separate clinical episodes for this patient. Update 22Dec08: Additional 
information received from the investigator 15Dec08. Added events of hypotension, worsened anemia, narcotic 
overdose, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, and sepsis. Added reporter, laboratory and diagnostic tests, concomitant 
medications, treatment medications, and admission/discharge dates. Updated start date for syncope. Updated 
narrative appropriately. Update 24Dec08: Upon further review of the information received on 15Dec08, amended 
listedness for the event of sepsis to Listed against USPI, Core, and SPC. Update 19Jan09: Additional information 
received from the investigator 12Jan09. Events of syncope and port infection were deleted. Updated narrative 
appropriately.