is -anin**.S.40,0 EasternCancer 0 Group 
(ECOG- repcxt span  A 44 year old white male patient with 
metastatic NSCLC (non small cell lung cancer), diagnosed on with baseline performance status at 
initiation or protocol-ECOG/Zubrod scale:1 started to receive oral Sunitinib malate 37.5mg daily and intravenous 
.Pornetrexed 5.00mg /m2 over 10 minutes on-day 1 (Study drug course description: 21 day cycle) on 045ep2008 
Prior therapy .inciuded multiple systemic apy agents from Nov2007 through Mar200.8. Co 0, 0  slant 
moons included fentabyl (patch)and 0  .6-  . The patient was admitted with DVT (deep vein thrombosis), 
0 RLE frighOctiver extremity:) and also PE (pulmonary embolus). He was admitted to the hospital after reporting 
!writ for painin his lower legs and lower extremity edema. He was found to have bilateral DVT and also a PE and 
was startedert Lovenox. Started bowel regime for constipation. He also had some delirium, but was lucid on 
Thursday. rneds that could to to delirium, decreased narcotics for breakthrough pain. On 
CALGB 30704 ARM ill, had cycle 3 day 1 chemo on 230ci2008 and was admitted onallillb The serious 
'dyerse events were. grade 3 pain: extremity-limb, grade 1 edema: limb, grade 1 confusion, grade 2 constipation, 
grade 2 dyspnea (shortness of breath), grade 1 cough, and-grade 4 thrombosis/thrombus/embolism. The decision 
was pending regarding-removal from. protocol, and the patient was not retreated. The total dose of Pemetrexed 
administered this course was 975 mg, last administered on 230ct2008, and the total dose of Sunitinib administered 
this course was 225mg, last administered 280ct2008. Doses of Pemetrexed and Sunitinib were not changed or 
delayed, and the patient was recovering from the events. Scan done during hospital stay also revealed disease 
progression, the.patient officially off treatment on 290ct2008, remaining Sunitinib malate returned. The patient was 
readmitted.tothe hospital on 111111111111 he-followed up with the physician on The patient was 
reporting increased shortness of breath and increased pain in the thoracic and. kin spine atthat time. 
Treatment options were discussed and inciudectpleurodesis, radiation treatment for palliation of pain, or 
of Tarceva. Later that same day, he dev increasing dyspnea and.cailed-EMS who transferred 
him to the Emergency room. He was found to be sating in-the 80s with an increase to 99% with a non-rebreather 
mask. CT revealed a new left lower lobe pulmonary embolism and.a large right effusion with total collapse of the 
right king and mass effect, as well as bone metastases and pericardial effusion. He was initially admitted to a step 
down _bed. He was taken to surgery on and had a bronchoscope, with VATS surgery and right 
pleurodesis. 2.3 liters of 0-  0 o  oy pleural fluid was obtained. He was extubated, but subsequently required 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 11:09 AM If a fietd is blank, there is no data for that field Page 199  of 661 
FDA Adverse EventReporting System (FAERS) 
PDIA Case Report Information 
reintuhation and was transferred to the SICU. There were several attempts at weaning the patient from the 
ventilator vihich were non successful at the time. The patient s family wished for the  tient to be transferred to 
 - for hospice care. The patient was not retreated. This was done on and patient died 
on The investigator &ered the evens confusion and constipation were unift y related to 
Penititrexed or SuniTinib, events cough and dyspnea were unrelated to both Pemetrexed and Sunitinib, and events 
edema, paity,amtrernity-limb and thrombosis/ thri 0. ,  IV embolism were unlikely r  o  to Pernetrexed, and 
possibly reWed to .Sunitinib. The investigator considered confusion, constipation, cough, dyspnea, and edema: 
kinb, and pain, extemity, to be unlikely related to non small cell lung cancer and thrombosis/ thrombus/ embolism 
was related  non smakoell king cancer. Confusion and constipation were possibly related to Fentanyl 
patch and cough, dyspnea, , pain, and thrombosis unrelated to Fentanyl patch. Confusion and constipation 
we possibly related to oxycodone, and cough, dyspnea, edema, pain: extremity-limb and 
thrombosis/thrombus/  a  o  m were unrelated to cykycodone. Other contributing causes included comorbidity of 
PE. Confusion, constipation, edema: limb, and pain: extremity-limb were unrelated to comorbidity of PE, while 
cough, dyspnea, and thrombosis/thrombus/embolism were definitely related to comorbidity of PE. Follow-up 
(160ec201:18) new information reported includes details of patient's condition before his death, treatments and lab 
tests.