This lepolt was received frolettahe.atthcare professional. (Physician) via another manufacturer (Pfizer) Reference 
. 2006101523.A 44-YelarKild111810.pationt initiated of . (Oxycodone Oral 
Sokttio.n). The.patient.was Study sponsored by the 
Co-suspect medications initiaterfon04SEP2008 oral sunitinib matate, 
asig once , and.intray.encus.P) pemetrexed, 50,11ragfm2 administered over: 10 minutes on day one 
ilitu*::drug-curse .description. 21 day.eycje). The total dose of pemetrexed administered this course was 975 mg, 
441:100054.11(ton  2 PC71008. and dose of sunitinib this course was 225 mg, last 
00.,400.CT.2.006. The patient alsoreceived feritanyttliirate (Fentanyt) solution injection .On 
AfterfirceisliOir OxycoOone, the patient e.xperiericedthe serious adverse events of grade 4 bilateral 
deep vein  ; 'a  :a     .(0%tnittihe datt lower ems..: ;);-fade a. pulmonary embolus (PE), grade 3 pain in 
the extremity-limb, grades 1: grade .1..confasiOn, grade 2 constipation, grade 2 dyspnea (shortness of 
breath) and grade 1.. cough. The patient was admitted to hospital after presenting with pain. in. his lower legs and 
lower extremity edema and was treated with.h  . .-fractionwith sodium salt. (Lovenox) and started..on a bowel 
regime for constipation. He also had some delirium, but was lucid on Thursday. Medications that could to 
to delirium were minimized and. narcotics were.decreased.forbreakthrough pain. At the time of reporting, the 
decisiOnettite...penckng regarding removal from the .0 pa . . a: and the patient was not retreated. The events were 
reacilaiaget*e. time of reporting. The patient's medical: , included metastatic non-small cell king cancer 
(NSCLC). PAW' medications included multiple systemic chemotherapy agents from NOV2007 through to 
1 . The patient's baseline performance status at protocol initiation was ECOGIZ 4:a 4 .sca4e:1. The 
investigator of the non-sponsored trial considered confusion and constipation to be possibly related to Oxycodone, 
and   , dyspnea, edema, pain (extramity,iant) andthr a  . .    rombusiembolism.lobe unrelated to 
Oxycodone. The events confusion and constipation were considered: to be unlikely related to pemetrexed or 
sunitinib, events cough and dyspneewereunrelatedloboth pemetrexed and sunitinib, and events edema, pain 
(extremity-limb) and  .0 : . .sithrombuste   o  a  sm were unlikely related to pemetrexed and possibly related to 
sunitinib. The investigator considered confusion, constipation, cough, dyspnea, edema (limb.) and pain (extremity) 
to be war.* related to non small cell lung cancer and thrombo ' .a; ,0:-bias/embotisrn was possibly related to non 
Sala COI king cancer. s ' and constipation were possibly related to-Fentanyl patch and cough, dyspnea, 
, pain and uhf's  unrelated to Fentanyl. patch. Other co a  causes included comorbidity of PE. 
Ca . 4'  constipation, edema (limb.) and pain (extremity-limb) were unrelated to comorbidity of PE, while cough, 
Print Tim., 02-SEP4014 11:09 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOiA Case Report Information 
dyspnea and thrD r .  .M  &embolism were definitely related to cornorbiclity of PE.Follow-up information was 
received on 09,1AN2009 from a healthcare professional (Transplant Coordinator).A male patient received oral 
Orycodone Oral Solution for the treatment of pain related to a diagnosis of NSCLC. The patient was participating 
in a study or oral sunitinib and IV pemetrexed until SEP2008. In SEP2CO3, during the time of the study, the patient 
experienced confusion, constipation, thrombosis (deep vein), dyspnea and a cough. Oxycodone Oral Solution 
therapy  L.. .The confusion, constipation, thrombosis (deep vein), dyspnea and cough remained ongoing until 
the patient's death. it was further noted that on 111111111111b the patient passed away due to advanced NSCLC. 
Medical history included advanced NSCLC diagnosed in OCT2007 and pain. Concomitant medication included a 
fentanyt patch.