This blinded clinical trial case isInline udract number unknown) concerns a 61 year old female patient. 
The patient did not have a relevant medical history. Concomitant medications included: folic acid, cyancobaiamin, 
dexamethasone, heparin for 7  :a go- is, ferrous sulphate and  0  o gtin for anemia. On an unknown date the 
pationt commenced the open label phase of study with treatments of o  -trexed 500 mg/rn2 (intravenous) and 
cispitttin 75 mg/m2 (intravenous) arid the patient was then moved to the maintenance phase of the study. On 29-
May-2009 the patient commenced blinded study drug for advanced .r n  varlaous non-small cell lung cancer. The 
last dose prior to event was administered on 16-Jun-  i 0 1 6 . On days after the last dose of blinded 
study drug she went to the emergencrreom for serious 0. -0 _  and thorax pain, CTC grade HI, and was 
hospitalised. The investigator commented that that, patient had severe effort dyspnoea without cough, violent 
purulent expectoration or thorax pain. The patient showed  a  ypoxic ^  ;0    ;a at rest, rhythmic cardiac action 
and had no fever. A thorax radiography was performed (date not reported): non evident pleural parenchymal 
alterations in the left side, the right side showed a marked hypodiaphania in the middle-lower third also with multiple 
nodular formations in a picture compatible with the anamnesis, mediastinum was within the limits with a marked left 
ventricular outline, implantable access port (IAP) (right subdavian vein access), localised the distal extremity in the 
site of the a..  versa cave. An electrocardiogram (ECG) was performed (date not provided): sinus rhythm with 
normal attioventsicular conduction. Laboratory data included (date and units/reference ranges not reported): 
- 0 0 0 0 creatinine 1.7mg, white ceps 1600 (neutrophils 300). No other relevant physical findings were 
reported. The patient was treated with hydration, hemotransfusion was performed with a clinical improvement 
noted. Filgrastim was administered and hemocultures were performed (results not provided). Further laboratory 
data was provided (date/units/reference range not reported): h  -  cells a  a.  0  oin 9.8, while blood  8300,  platelet 
62000, aspartate transaminase (AST) 94, atanine transaminase (AST) 87, C-reactive protein (CRP) 67, creatinine 
and electrotytes were normal. The patient recovered on an unknown date and was discharged on 30-Jun-2009. At 
discharge the patient was noted to be eupnoeic, non-febrile, asymptomatic. Ongoing therapy with enoxaparin 
' .a 6000th/day (performing blood test to monitor the post chemotherapy thro  0  .'6 Study drug was 
continuing. The investigator stated that the events were not related to pemetrexed and cisplatin (open labelled 
phase) or topr0  o   procedures but were related to blinded study drug therapy. This case is linked to 
IT . 6  6 6  001013 (same patient, different clinical episode). Update 04-Aug-2009: Further  0  '  ation received from 
the investigator on the 29-Jul-2009. Relatedness assessment provided. Case and narrative '00.1...  a  accordingly. 
Update 19-Oct-2009: Further information received from the investigator on the 09-Oct-2009. Relatedness 
assessment changed for study drugs, events related to blinded study drug only, laboratory data, examination 
results and treatment details were provided. Details of linked case provided. Case and narrative updated