This investigator-initiated trial case regards a 79-year-old male of unspecified ethnicity. Medical 
history included non-small cell iltrcaniclelri teb09), recent acute gout, probable peripheral neuropathy, 
lipodermatoscierosis, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulm0 - disease, prostate cancer, diabetes mellitus type 
H,   $ myopathy of unknown significance, and osteoarthritis. The patient received multiple concomitant 
fciiic acid, vitamin B12, furosemide, fluticasone/salineterol, and monteiUkast.  On 04Mar09, 
the.patiatikfirst received pemetrexed disa0" -  a  .(Ahrnta) 820 mg intravenously (IV), in combination gemcttabine 
hydrotgll.de (Gemzar) 2470 mg IV, and ioombination with bevacizumab 893 mg IV, all for an unspecified 
frequeltat :for the treatment of non-smat oelMung cancer. Prior to the event, study therapy was last received on 
26,Juri09 (completed 3 cycles). Onillillibadays since last receiving study therapy, the patient was hospitalized 
for grade 3 shortness of breath. He was given a breathing treatment of methylprednisolone. A computerized 
tornograrn of the chest was negative for a pulmonary embolus. Labs showed white    000 cell count 7.3, hematocrit 
33, platelet count 240, and:glucose 108. Cardiac enzymes were negative. A chest x-ray  o  . no evidence of 
Rte. After assessitaent, the patient was de  0  to have a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
ems. He was treated with IV steroids, IV antibiotics, nebulizer treatments, and s 00 tel oxygen. He 
recelyeitiiirosemide for  .  extremity edema. On an unspecified date, shortly after admission, the patient's 
blood sugar and  0  eau pressure went out of control, and he was confused. These symptoms were thought to be 
seigendary to steroid use. His blood pressure medication was adjusted, and an insulin regimen was instituted. The 
killassing day, the patient developed nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain; the patient was noted to be constipated. 
A kidney, urethrra. anittilackler x-ray showed fecal stasis tire  a  0  . He required multiple enemas, stool 
softeners, and laxatives, including macrogoilpotassium chloride/sodium bicarbonate/sodium chloride/sodium. On 
last , patient's was stable, and he was released to . The shortness of breath had resolved. 
Sitidittiaaapy was discontinued. In the opinion of the study investigator, the event of grade 3 shortness of breath 
was lifelfilie$0 to study therapy of pemetrexed, gemcitabine, and bevacizumab. Protocol procedure relatedness 
was not pos*td. This patient is cross-referenced in case US 1.# 6 17001261 which is a separate clinical episode. 
Update 10409: .0 a  received on 05Aug09. Amended relatedness from yes to no, amended event 
outicomeltoptAot recovered to recovered,  o 6  stop date to study therapy, added additional laboratory tests, 
added aslOtional concomitant m ". s, added additional treatment medications, and updated narrative.