This clinical trial case ginminc oncerns a 70-year-old Caucasian male. Medical history included 
metastatic king cancer to the liver, shortness of breath, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPO), 
pneumonia, right pleural effusion, coronary artery disease status post percutaneous transluminal coronary 
qty., hypertipidernia, hypertension, peripheral vascular disease, pancreatitis, and ex- a s , user. He was 
tai hole concomitant  ' , ions including folic acid, vitamin 812, precinisone, fentanyt, 
exycOonetacateminephen, fleticasonetsalmeterol, albuterol, ipratrnpium, and amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium. 
On 2C  1, the patient first- and last received pemetrexed disodium (Alimta) 500 mg/m2 intravenously (IV) in 
nombinatien with carboplatin 6 AUC IV and bevacizumab 15 mg/kg IV, all on day 1 every.days, for the treatment 
OT stage IV Non-smafi cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Few day after receiving study drugs, the patient experienced 
.neneral malaise and weakness. He developed shaking (which he attributed to  o e patCh) as well as 
effusion: Computed tornogram of the brain was unremarkable. He then.dev  0,0 a cough productive of green 
Sputum and increasing wheezing and shortness of breath. There was no fever. On after 
beginning the tent with the study 0,  0 , the patient had syncope and was taken to via at nce. He 
alSo had severaworsening shortness of breath and severe pain. Chest x-ray showed a new left lower lobe infiltrate 
and persistent infitrate in the right lower lobe. Electrocardiogram was normal. He subsequently was admitted for 
pneumonia, grade 3 and started on IV steroids and IV antibiotics (moxifloxacin, azithrornycin, ceftriaxone) and 
nebulizers. Upon , labs included: white blood cell count 2.3, hemoglobin 11.2, platelet count 52,000, and 
A    GO 0 Lweanitregen 60;  saturation was 92% on oxygen at two liters and arterial.bloodgases showed pH 
7.37, P- tee  52, and PAO2 79. On 19Aug09, azithroniycin was discontinued. On chest x-ray did not 
show significant interval changes. Echocardiography alsoperformed  owed normal left ventricular 
s.-ystelts-Ittinc.tion and size with impaired relaxation pattern of diastolic function; moderate concentric left ventricular 
hypertrophy and a small posterior pericardial effusion; election fraction estimated at about 60 percent. 
Subsequently, he improved and had port placement. On OM he was discharged on stable condition. The 
event of   .grade 3 was considered resolved. Discharge diagnoses included acute COPD exacerbation, 
metastatic king cancer to the fiver, severe chronic pain syndrome, and possible obstructive pneumonia. On 
264409 he had a -up visit with regards to his lung cancer and status post pneumonitis was noted as well as 
persistent cytopenia with history of severe cytopenia. The treatment with the study drugs was continued; however 
Sibernotherapyi. due on approximately 02Sep09, was pending blood counts and clinical status; doses might be 
wed as welt. 1.0 opinion of the investigator, the pneumonia was not related to.pernetrexed, carboplatin, 
bittiiacizurnab, or to pi0' .0 .    0  procedures. This case is cross-referenced to the 0
, 0   g case: US2rill :i  i  2533. 
400 G .0    link to separate clinical episode. Update 24Sep09: Additional information was received on 
IteIlipeaand.on 16Sep09. Deleted event of S 0,00: and added event ot Pneumonia. Updated patient information 
*eight height). Added lab and test results, medical history and concomitant medications. Updated the narrative. 
Print Tyne: 02-SEP-2044 11:09 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 475 of 661 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information