This clinkasktOet case: ms a 74-year-old Caucasian male. The patient's medical history 
nolvsmallce$1.. cancer ao..prp*** cancer. Concomitant medications i   a  9  folic acid, vitamin 812 
and.lisinoprit(started )...  On 'I .0 thepatient first receivect.pernetrexed disodiurn (Alimta) 500 rng/m2 
intravenously (IV), in combination with 6 AOC.  IV, and in cornbination with bevacizumab 1.5 mg/kg IV, ail 
on :Wry .  1.everyolloap,..for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. Prior to the event, the patient last received 
study.therapy on illitpac09..  On11111111.1days afterlastrec . study therapy, the patient experienced 
respiratory. syrriptorns and was taken via a e to the-hospital. The.patient was seen in the emergency 
department and was admitted to the intensive care unit. The patient was s 0 diagnpsedwith respiratory 
fallow grade 5 (8004hannerling,:latal);..myocardial infarction, grade 4 (also  1:1'.o  = red Vie-threatening.); sepsis, 
grade 4. renal:tallies% grade 3 and.  0  -stiveheartfaiture, 2. The.patient went intore.s arrest and 
was k not resuscitate. The patient expired on e to respiratory failure. No autopsy was performed. 
The investigattor.indicated there were no relevant test results. Study therapy was ongoing at the time of death. The 
investigator stated the events of sepsis and renal failure were.possibly related to study therapy: the events of 
myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure were possibly related.to bevacizurnab but not related to 
pereetrexed or carboplatin; the event of respiratory failure was not related to study therapy. All events were 
assessed as.not.r  to proo` col 0..0.  Z- 9 '  es.  Update 221Aart0: Additional information received 19Mar1:0. 
Cause of death changed to respiratory failure (from sepsis). Added events of respiratory failure, myocardial 
infarction, renal failure and congestive heart failure. Changed status of event sepsis from fatal to not recovered; 
reason serious criteria changed to. hospitalization only (deleted death) reassessed expectedness. As reported  
4000114 for sepsis changed to yes for all study medications (from not reported) and no for pre 0.,  procedures 
(frotnnot ). Added reporter, medical history and concomitant medications. Updated narrative for above, 
date of spo0y therapy last received prior to event and course of events.