This investigator initiated clinical trial 
, concerns a 52 year old female patient of unspecified origin. 
Medical history included stage IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), diagnosed Jan10. There was no prior 
chemotherapy received. Risk factors for thrombosis included a one year of hormone replacement therapy (2005-
2006) and a cholecystectomy (Nov09). The patient had not experienced any recent trauma, immobilization, airline 
travel or surgery. Concomitant medications included extended release morphine sulfate, hydromorphone, 
prochlorperazine, docusate, senna, lorazepam, ciprofloxacin, along with supplementation per protocol with folic acid 
and vitamin B-12. 
On 29Jan10, the patient first received intravenous (IV) pemetrexed (Alimta) 400 mg/m2 in combination with IV 
gemcitabine (Gemzar) 1200 mg/m2 and IV bevacizumab 10 mg/kg given everyalliNeeks for the treatment of 
advance NSCLC. This was the only dose of study drugs received prior to the event. On Ilidays since 
initiating treatment, the patient presented to the emergency department complaining of dyspnea, right lower sided 
chest pain, and dysphagia. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the thorax showed multiple bilateral pulmonary 
emboli and the patient was admitted to the hospital for unspecified treatment. Chest x-ray on that day showed 
increasing right pleural effusion. On VIM the patient was recovering from the event and was discharged. On 
22-Feb-2010, therapy with pemetrexed, gemcitabine and bevacizumab was discontinued. On 1111.111.1., the 
patient was taken to the emergency room (ER) with a complaint of right-sided chest wall pain grade 3. She was 
treated with morphine. On an unspecified date chest x-ray showed no positive findings. The patients pain subsided 
and she was discharged from the hospital onelliallin On 09-Mar-2010, the patient stopped gemcitabine and 
bevacizumab. On 16-Mar-2010, the patient was enrolled in hospice. On...M.t he patient experienced 
disease progression and died on that day. Per study protocol, disease progression is not a reportable event. The 
outcome for the events of pulmonary emboli and chest pain was unknown. 
In the opinion of the investigator, pulmonary emboli was possibly related to pemetrexed, gemcitabine, and 
bevacizumab and also possibly related to non-small cell lung cancer. Chest pain was unrelated to pemetrexed, 
gemcitabine, and bevacizumab, but definitely related to non-small cell lung cancer. The relatedness to protocol 
procedures was not reported. 
This patient is cross-referenced to case US201003004690, a separate clinical episode. 
Update 12Apr10: Additional information received 09Apr10. Updated patient history. Added discharge date. 
Updated event status to recovering. Updated study therapy status to no change (from unknown). Investigator 
confirmed all test results were provided on initial report. Updated narrative. Upon review, added patient link to 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 586 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
narrative. 
Update 20-Nov-2012: Additional information received on 20-Nov-2012 from the study investigator via another 
manufacturer. The patient died from disease progression (not reportable). Chest pain was added as a new event. 
Last date study drugs were received was provided. Diagnostic test provided, concomitant and treatment 
medications updated. Additional event details provided. Relevant fields and narrative updated accordingly.