clinical trial reported by an investigator via a subsidiary company (Manufacturer Number 08-02- 
, pro. o case concerns a 73 year-old Caucasian female patient. Medical history included: 
squamous cell ca  oma o lung (May07), stage 1 breast cancer (May05) (treated with lumpectomy, radiation, and 
anastrozole), bipedal edema, degenerative arthritis, hypertension, and Meniere's disease. Concomitant medications 
included: dextro 0xyphene napsikate paracetamol, paracetamol, vitamins nos, magnesium chloride anhydrous, 
benzalkonium Chloride dexamethasone phenylmercuric nitrate, anastrozole, ondansetron hydrochloride, 
dexamethasone sodium phosphate, retinol, pramipexole dihydrochtoride. It was not provided if the patient received 
folic acid and B-12 supplementation. On 24Apr08, the patient first received pemetrexed disodium (Alimta), dose 
unknown, intravenously (IV), in combination with cetuximab, dose unknown, IV, for the treatment of non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC). Prior to the event, pemetrexed was last received on 23Jul08, and cetuximab on 30Jul08. On 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field Is blank, there is no data for that field Page 124  of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
OM, Odays since last receiving pemetrexed, and 6 days since last received cetuximab, the patient contacted 
the investigator reporting profound fatigue, anorexia, and inability to eat. During examination the patient was 
observed to have right lower extremity edema, tachycardia, dehydration and dyspnea. Labs revealed elevated 
blood urea and creatinine (results not specified). She was diagnosed with pneumonitis and admitted into the 
hospital for hydration and to rule out the possibility of an underlying deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary emboli. 
Within 24 hours, the patient developed severe dyspnea requiring intubation. On GM labs included: absolute 
neutrophil count (ANC) 4.68, platelets 39, white blood cells (WBC) 5.86, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) 45, and 
creatinine 1.9. On an unspecified date, cetuximab therapy was placed on hold. It was not omvided if pemetrexed 
con . OnOM sputum, urine, two blood cultures collected were negative. On 
tom.. o
a computer 
  y angiogram of the chest revealed no evidence of pulmonary embolism, cavitary mass in the right upper 
tobe, extensive bilateral pulmonary infiltrates, both acute and chronic. See source document for further lab details. 
'The patient's respiratory status did not improve, and infectious disease was consulted. Or1  .110 the patient 
required high levels of oxygen (Fi02 of 80%), was afebrile, and had a decreased blood pressure of 91/47. See 
source document for detailed abnormal labs. The infectious disease physician considered the respiratory failure 
and worsening pulmonary infiltrates to be of an interstitial pattern that required increased oxygen levels and 
considerafion of the possibility of an atypical infection, nosocomial and ventilator acquired infection versus 
pneurnocystis mind pneumonia infection. Treatment was continued with linezoiid and levofioxacin; caspofungin 
was.changedtovo azole. The infectious disease physician considered the patient's overall prognosis as poor 
secondary to the clinical status and underlying comorbidities. Repeat imaging studies and adequate anticoagulant 
therapy failed to demonstrate an acute pulmonary embolism. The patient began to exhibit symptoms consistent 
with adult type respiratory distress syndrome. Several attempts at extubation were unsuccessful and the patient's 
o  ion continued to deteriorate. On NM after sedation and extubation, the patient died from pneumonitis. 
An autopsy was not performed. It was not provided if the patient remained on protocol until her time of death. 
The investigator assessed the event of pneumonitis as possibly related to pemetrexed and cetuximab. Protocol 
procedures were not assessed. Update 21-Sep-2011: Upon review on 20-Sep-2011, it was determined that this 
report Is a follow up to case 08-02-14781; therefore this report will be deleted from the database. All information 
from this report has been captured in case 08-02-14781.