This case, described in the literature, concerns a 61-year-old female of unreported origin. The patient's medical 
history included non-small cell king cancer (NSCLC) (adenocarcinoma, pT2N2M0), initially treated with right lower 
lung lobectomy. She received adjuvant chemotherapy with vinorelbine and cisplatin that was discontinued following 
the fourth cycle due to pleural metastases. Patient received folic acid, cyanocobalamin, and dexamethasone. The 
patient received pemetrexed (Aiimta) for the treatment of metastatic lung adenocarcinoma; dosage, frequency and 
start date were not reported. On an unreported date following the fourth cycle of pernetrexed, she experienced 
dyspnea. Chest x-rays and computerized tomography (CT) scan demonstrated diffuse pulmonary infiltration, and 
lesion progression. Sputum cultures were negative for bacterial pathogens, and acid fast stain was also negative. 
Serologic data did not indicate infection, cardiac, or collagen vascular disease. She underwent a video-assisted 
thorascopic lung biopsy. Pathology demonstrated diffuse alveolar septa! thickening with hyaline membranes, and 
Grocott's methenamine silver stain did not provide evidence of specific infiltration. Corrective interventions included 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 11:09 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 632 of 661 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (.FAERS) 
FOJA Case Report Information 
oral prednisolone. The dyspnea and pulmonary infiltrations were slowly irate 0 It was not reported if the 
pernetrexed therapy was reinitiated. The authors stated that the acute lung injury was relatedto the pemetrexed; 
further stating the clinical history, histologic evidence of lung injjry, and exclusion of other potential factors 
0 ted the chemo-therapeutic drug as the cause of the acute lung injury. This case was described in the 
article: Kim HO, Lee SY, Shim JJ, Kang KH, and Shin BK. A Case of Pemetrexed-Induced Acute Lung Injury in 
Non-small Ceti Lung Cancer. Journal of Thoracic Oncology. 2010; 5: 401-402. Update 13-Jun-2010: Additional 
information received on the 03-Jun-2010: Added that patient receibed folic acid, c  .  :;  mine and 
dexarn.ethasone along with pernetrexed. Updated correspondingfields, narrative and PSUR comment accordingly.