This investigate( initiated clinical trial case udraCT Unknown) concerns a 57-year-old female 
patient of unknown ethnicity. The patientsreldiliMhis oilrlyh wEas not reported.  a   a mitant medications included 
folic acid and vitamin 812 for vitamin supplementation and dexamethasone for prophylaxis received as per 
protocol. The patient was enrolled in this randomised and multicentric phase III trial assessing patients with 
advanced non-smelt cell lung cancer on first line chemotherapy with four cycles of cisplatin-gemcitabine; then 
patients are randomised in maintenance therapy with best e o  ye care (arm A) or gemcitabine (arm 
.or (arm C) until disease progression, followed by a  line with pernetrexed. On 16,Dec-2008, the 
patient was randomised to arm B and first received gemcitabine (unspecified manufacturer) and cisplatin both 
intravenously at an unspecified dose via an unknown cycle frequency for the treatment of non-small cell lung 
cancer. The last dose of cisplatin prior to the event onset was administered on 24-Feb-2009 and last dose of 
gemcitabine on 04-Aug-2009 and both therapies were also completed on these dates. On 18-Aug-2009, the patient 
commenced second line treatment with pemetrexed (Alimta) 500 mg/m2 intravenously via an unspecified cycle 
length, Last dose of pemetrexed prior to the event onset was given on 09-Feb-2010. Approximately rand one 
urines 
s .
receiving the last dose of cisplatin, Illnernonths after receiving:the last dose of germ' and 
atelyillirrionth post the last administration of pernetrexed, on...Maths patient died at home due 
to massive haerriciplysis. The patient's death was reported by her brother on 19-Mar-2010, who stated his sister 
died the previous week. No further details were available and it was not specified if an autopsy was performed. At 
they of death, treatment with pemetrexed was ongoing. The investigator did not provide an assessment of 
raylitadness between the event fatal haemoptysis and use of study drugs or protocol procedures. Update 19-Apr-
MO. Additional information received from investigator on 13-Apr-2010: Updated date and cause of death, updated 
relatedness assessment. Updated PSUR comment. All relevant fields and narrative updated accordingly.