This investigator-initiated clinical trial case EUDRACT number unknown, valid reported information 
on file at affiliate) concerns a 65-year old milloilligne.vn origin. The patient's medical history included a hearing 
impairment. Concomitant medication included: metoprotol succinate, pregabalin and rabeprazole sodium for 
unknown ' ' s. The patient was enrolled in a study of neoadiuvant chemotherapy and extrapleural 
pflOUITICX1 y of malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) with or without hemithoracic radiotherapy. On 22-Jul- 
2009, the patient first received intravenous pemetrexed (Alimta) and intravenous cispiatin, dosage and cycle 
frequency not Br , ", ffoorr  the indication of mesotheliorna. On the 21-Oct-2009, the patient underwent a 
pleurepneurnonectoiny. The patient last received pemetrexed and cisplatin prior to the event on 03-Sep-2009. On 
the 21-Jan-2010, the patient commenced radiation therapy, 45 Gy, for the indication of mesothefioma, cycle 
frequency not provided. The patient last received radiation erapy on the 05-Mar-2010. The p
follow-up phase of the study on the 05-Mar-2010. On the approximatelyi mp atient entered the months after last 
pemetrexed and cisplatin and 42 days after last receiving radiation therapy, the patient experienced 
pleural effusion, serious for initial hospitalisation. A computerised tomography showed a pleural effusion and a 
pleural puncture was performed which resolved the pleural effusion. Cytology of the aspiration from the pleural 
puncture revealed no malignant cells. The patient recovered from the event on the 16-Apr-20t0 and was 
discharged the same day. No action was taken with the study drugs as a result of the event. In the investigator's 
opinion, the event was unlikely to be related to pemetrexed and cisplatin but was considered related to radiation 
therapy and the pleuropneumonectomy performed on the 21-Oct-2009. No relatedness to protocol procedures was 
collected. Follow-up information received on the 19-Apr-2010 and 22-Apr-2010 was processed with the initial case. 
Update 10,4tday-2010: Additional information was received from the investigator on 29-Apr-2010, which included 
results of CT and pleural puncture, admission and discharge dates and change of relatedness for pemetrexed and 
cisplatin from related to unlikely. Investigator statement amended. Narrative, corresponding fields and PSUR 
comments updated accordingly.