This clinical.trial case , concerns a 20 year old Caucasian female patient. Medical history 
Ewing's sarceonrpeiitherrprimitive neuroectodermal tumor, metastases to lung and an ECOG/Zubrocl 
stare of one (baseline performance status at initiation of protocol). Prior chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy not 
provided..  :  0  0 . N. ' medications included dexarnethasone, cy .'e  alamin and multivitamin with folic acid. On 
140001. the patient first received pemetrexed disodiurn (Alirnta), 1910 mg/m2 intravenously (IV) on day 1 every 21 
clays for the treatment of Ewing's sarcoma/peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor. On 150007, she 
experienced grade 2 flushing to both buttocks, including the inguinal area of primary disease site during the 
pemetrexed infusion. The patient described it as flushed feeling, it was not visible and a generalized
Flushing resolved completely without treatment within an hour of the completion of the infusion. 04.1 w.a1r1m1 f1ee,1lin1g.6.  
days after last dose of pernetrexed, she was hospitalized for a grade 3 infection with grade 1 or 2 neiiiimilsp/lung 
(pneumonia). Absolute neutrophil count (ANC} was 1.4. She received IV fluids and a  0 0 On she 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 11:09 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 577 of 661 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
expefienced an infection with grade 3 or 4 neutrophils/lung(pneumonia). ANC was 0.5. Ong... she was 
taken off protocol per the judgment of the physician regarding the quality of life and best interest of the patient. On 
Min she was recovering from the events and was discharged from the hospital. ANC was 0.8 the day of 
discharge. Study protocol was discontinued on In the opinion of the study investigator, the event of 
flushing was probably related to pemetrexed. The events of infection without neutropenia and infection with 
neutropenia were both possibly related to the pemetrexed and ewing sarcoma/peripheral primitive neuroectodermal 
tumor. The infections were unlikely related to vitamin B12 and dexamethasone. The flushing was unlikely related 
to vitamin 812 and dexamethasone, and unrelated ewing sarcoma/peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor. 
The events were not related to protocol procedures. Update 23Jun10: Information received on 22Jun10. Coded 
event of grade 2 flushing, updated narrative and PSIJR comment.