This clinical trial case concerns a 49 year old Caucasian 
female patient. The pa ent was reported no past medical history of cardiac events. Concomitant 
aligns included supplementation medications folic acid, vitamin B12 and dexamethasone all used as a 
0 0 0 Axis as per protocol. On unknown date, the patient commenced open label induction phase and first 
received intravenous study drugs: pemetrexed (Alimta) 500mg/m2 and cisplatin 75mg/m2, on day one every 21 
days, for advanced nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer. On 09-Jun-2010 the patient commenced 
(maintenance phase of study) blinded study drug on day 1 every 21 days (intravenous) for advanced non 
=nous non-small cell lung cancer. The last dose prior to event was administered on 09-Jun-2010. On 1111111 
ays after the last dose of blinded study drug was administered, the patient was hospitalised due to 
pleuritic pain and shortness of breath CTC grade II. Upon follow up it was reported that the onset of the events 
were not documented to have been sudden or linked to any activity. The patient was also reported to have 
expert and haemopytsis (not recorded as serious adverse events). No other relevant physical findings 
were reported. Corrective treatment included:enoxaparin. A computed tomographic pulmonary angiography (CTPA) 
evidence of pulmonary embolus (not confirmed). The patient was recovered from the events one/ 
allinand discharged from hospital the same day. Study drug was continuing. According to investigator the 
event pleuritic pain was related to open label pemetrexed and cisplatin, and to blinded study drug. The event of 
is of breath was related to blinded study drug, but not related to open label pemetrexed and cisplatin. 
Neither event was considered related to protocol procedures. Further information received on 12-Jul-2010 was 
entered and processed with initial case. This case is cross-referenced with case ID: GB201007002472 Update 23-
Dec-2010: a a  a al information received from initial reporter on 21-Dec-2010: Added supplementation 
medications, negative medical history added laboratory data. Confirmation that cough and haemopytsis were not 
s events. Further details of events added. Updated events outcome and date of recovery, relatedness 
assessment and statement in narrative. Added linked case to narrative. Updated relevant fields and narrative 
accordingly. Update 04-Mar-2011. Additional information received from data management on 21-Feb-2011 (LSS 
Change Request): Changed relatedness for event of pleuritic pain to open label induction phase pemetrexed from 
not related to related, and to cisplatin from not reported to related. Updated relevant fields and narrative 
accordingly.