This case concerns an 83 year old Caucasian male. Medical history included 
. Concomitant medications included vitamin b-1.2, folic acid, dexamethasone, 
leyothyroitine, pravastatin for  0, e .  6  ia, nisoldipine and amlodipine for:. tarnsulosin for enlarged 
metal*, docusate sodium, ipratropiurn bromideialbuteroi sulfate inhaler for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
andjeeby aspirin. From 'I 5Mar10 to 26Apr10, the patient received concurrent phase of study treatment, which 
ciTORisled41 pemetrexed (Atimta) 500 rng/m2 intravenously (IV) in  o . , "o  with 75 ingim2 IV both 
giVen,e,very, .three weeks for three treatments total, along with radiotherapy, a WWII* 000,0 given over 30 treatments 
(last dueetiadiation was 28Apr1 0) for the indication of stage III non-small cell lungeancer. 00,0241un10, the patient 
started -the .0 - 0'0 tion phase of the study with single agent ,pemetrexed 500 0.  ,.21V three weeks to be 
given-W*10*o. four treatments. This was the last dose received prior to the event. On ,11111,days since 
last receiving,Pectintrexed, and approximately weeks since last receiving radiation and cisplatin, the patient was 
hospitalized atterite 0-0 a  more dyspneic and weak. The patient was diagnosed with mild acute respiratory 
failure along with a new onset of atrial fibrillation. it was noted the patient was neutair(lab values not provided) 
but there was no evidence of infection. Anticoagulant therapy was started and on the patient was 
discharged in stable condition. Pemetrexed status was not reported. Onlialila tieant   was re-a dmitted to 
the hospital with acute respiratory failure and was transferred to hospice care on On that same day, the 
patient died with reported cause of death acute respiratory distress. It was not reported if an autopsy was 
performed. in the opinion of the investigator, the grade 3 acute respiratory failure with fatal outcome was 
considered possibly related to all three study drugs; relatedness to protocol procedure not assessed. It was noted 
the event was possibly due to some mild radiation pneumonitis or atrial fibrillation. The grade 3 weakness was 
a s	 6  of deterioration, unrelated to study drugs or protocol procedure. The grade 2 atrial fibrillation 
related to pernetrexed, unrelated to radiation, cisplatin and protocol procedure. Update 16,1u110: 
Arad received 13,Jul1 0; amended event term 'dyspnea' to 'acute respiratory distress' and added 
fatal outcome; updated investigator's opinion of relatedness; added information about re-hospitalization. Updated 
narrative and relevant fields,