This case reported in the literature, by a health care professional concerns a 68 year old male patient of an 
unknown origin. The patient's medical history included prostate carcinoma, dyspnea, dry cough, right sited chest 
pain, low fever, loss of weight, epithelial malignant pleural mesothelioma and sarcomatoid areas, right extrapleural 
pleuropneumonectomy and asbestos exposure. As concomitant medication, patient started the treatment with 
vitamin B12 and folic acid 8 days before starting chemotherapy and corticosteroid drugs were administered to the 
patient as premedication immediately before starting chemotherapy. The patient was treated with pemetrexed 
(unknown trade name) 875 mg, unknown frequency, intravenously in combination with cisplatin 130 mg, unknown 
frequency, intravenously for the treatment of diffuse malignant pleural mesothelioma (DMPM) beginning on an 
unspecified date in May 2005. After the first administration, the therapy was suspended because of the onset of 
fever (38 degrees centigrade), cough, right sited chest pain and acute leucopoenia (<2000 x 10000). Chest X-ray 
showed right thoracic effusion and bronchoscopy revealed a 2 mm bronchial leakage of the right principal 
bronchus. Endoscopic resolution was attempted using different types of glue but only temporary benefits was 
achieved. The patient refused surgical treatment and in June 2005 a permanent thoracic drain was placed. A 
computerised tomogram (CT scan) performed on January 2006 showed local tumor recurrence at the right 
paramediastinal area (7cm of diameter) and the right anterolateral chest wall (7cm of diameter). Also peritoneal 
carcinomatosis and several hepatic lesions (sixth segment and between second and fourth segment) were 
described. The patient performance status permitted restart the chemotherapic treatment with palliative intent on 
February 2006, using the same regimen as in May 2005 (pemetrexed 875 mg, intravenous and cisplatin 130 mg, 
intravenous). In April 2006, after three cycles of chemotherapy, another CT scan was done and no signs of tumor 
could be detected. All the recurrences described previously were regressed. The patient started a follow up 
program with total body CT scan every 4 months, At the forth CT examination, done in June 2007, recurrences 
were redetected in correspondence of the chest wall and the liver. The disease free period, after the chemotherapic 
treatment, amounted to more than 12 months with an acceptable quality of life. On an unspecified date in August 
2007, the patient was admitted to an internal medicine department with fever, dyspnea and decrease of the general 
conditions. The patient died on an unspecified date in for septic complications related to the right 
chronic effusion and chronic infection of the residual pleura cave y. e events of acute leucopenia, thoracic 
effusion, bronchial leakage and infection of the residual pleural cavity were considered by the company as serious 
for medical significant reasons. The reporter considered the events of acute leucopenia and fever related to 
pemetrexed treatment. No relatedness assessment was given for the events of throracic effusion and bronchial 
leakage. The event of septic complication was reported as not related to pemetrexed treatment. According to the 
reporter, death was not related to pemetrexed, it was due to septic complications due to a chronic infection of the 
residual pleural cavity. It was not reported if the event chronic infection was related to pemetrexed. This case was 
reported in the article: Paliogiannis P, Pala C, Serventi F, Trignano E and Trignano M. Multimodality approach to 
malignant pleural mesothelioma. A case report. Ann. Ital. Chir: 2010; 81: 37- 40. Update on 28Dec2010. Additional 
information received from reporter on 21Dec2010. Added that patient started the treatment with vitamin B12 and 
folic acid 8 days before starting chemotherapy and corticosteroid drugs were administered to the patient as 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 523 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
premedication immediately before starting chemotherapy. Added that the death was not related to pemetrexed, it 
was due to septic complications due to a chronic infection of the residual pleural cavity. Added the serious event 
chronic infection of the residual pleural cavity. Updated narrative and corresponding fields.