This = trial case concerns a 64 year old Caucasian male patient. The patient's medical 
history  0,  0.11 the following: In Jan- 10 the patient was noted to have a right lung mass. A computerised 
tomography (CT) scan in Feb-2010 showed a spiculated right hilar mass. The patient was diagnosed with non-
small cell lung cancer on 01Mar2010. A bronchoscopy done in Mar-2010 showed right middle lobe bronchus was 
markedty narrowed due to the eccentric mass. Additional medical history included coronary artery disease (CAD) 
with stent in 1999, myocardial infarction (Ml), chronic back pain, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), 
hypertipidemia, diabetes mellitus, pancreatitis (1990), dyspnoea, anxiety, hypothyroidism, morphine atergy and 
renal aortic aneurysm. A lumbar spine MRI performed due to back pain showed moderate multilevel arthritic 
disease with en Ll compression fracture. Concomitant medications included: alprazolam, homatropine 
methylbromicle, hydrocodone bitartrate, hydrocodone, odansetron hydrochloride,  00 olol 
turner-ate/hydro  0,    0  othiazide, levothyroxine sodium, r , acetylsalicylic acid, rabeprazole sodium, and 
 . Patient received folic acid and vitamin B12 supplementation. On 29Mar2010, the patient first received 
open label study drugs pemetrexed disodium (Alimta) 500 mg/m2, carboplatin 6 AUC, and bevacizurnab 15 mg/kg 
intravenously every 21 days for the treatment of stage IIIB or ill non-small cell lung cancer (.NSCLC). On 
01Jun2010, the last dose of the introduction treatment with three study drugs was given. A CT scan of the chest 
and abdomen on 17-Jun-2010 was reported to show mild further improvement. On 22Jun2010, the first and last 
dose of maintenance treatment of pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 and bevacizurnab 15 mg/kg intravenously every. days 
was given. A week prior to presentation at hospital the patient developed increased shortness of breath. The 
patient had presented for his next maintenance dose of pemetrexed and bevacizumab, which were held as the 
patient-was extremely short of breath and was not feeling well overall. A pulmonary embokis protocol CT was done, 
whidtkrilid.not show evidence of pulmonary embolus; however it did show lower lobe pneumonia and on 14Jui2010, 
an diagram showed overall ventricular function preserved with ejection fraction, but no overwhelming 
. The patient received two days of intravenous ertapenem sodium and levofioxacin orally. On 
1111111111114Pdays since the last dose of pemetrexed and bevacizumab, he returned to the office and was found to 
have no  0  ovement. He was not able to tolerate any activity whatsoever. He was extremely weak and unable to 
hold himself up. The patient denied additional fever and had not had any other infectious symptoms in the sense 
that he had not been coughing. He had not eaten or drunk much over a period of several days. He was admitted for 
further evaluation and treatment. The patient was started an unspecified antibiotic therapy and intravenous fluids 
and oxygen and ipratropium bromicie/albuterol sulfate nebulizers every four hours. On the same day, a chest x-ray 
comparing to that from 29Apr2010 indicated normal heart size, small calcified granulomas, hyperinflation, and 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 11:09 MA if a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 430  of 681 
FDA - Adverse Event Rep .  4 !, System (FAERS) 
EOM Case Report Information 
ddfusa-prominent interstitial changes present throughout both lungs representing infiltrate and/or edema. On 
1141111111 normal white blood cell count of 8.7 was noted. The physician's impression was bilateral interstitial 
infiltrates, -predominance in the lower lobes, suggestive of atypical pneumonia versus drug reaction with interstitial 
pneumotitis. The investigator initially considered.  the event to be grade 3 pneumonitis, but upon follow-up this was 
changed to lyrnphangetic spread grade HI. A.plan of treatment included broad spectrum antibiotics, steroids 
pradnisone, and deep venous thrombosis andgestric prophylaxis and aerosol treatment. On the a CT 
Of the chest was performed. The results were as follows: al) interval deterioration in the appearance a chest. 
Diffuse interstitial opacities and areas of consolidation had developed findings were superi  6 6   6.   on background 
centrilobuleramphyserna, areas of mosaic and ground glass attenuation were again evident, acute interstitial 
Prkteandrtia, drug reaction, and usual interstitial pneumonia (with interstitial pulmonary fibrosis) were differential 
considerations tyrephangitic disease, pulmonary edema, and pneumonia might contribute to these opacities b) No 
o ate  in the appe. arance of the speculated lesion within the right kingconsistent with history of lung 
car..4110.40M11*Trace of bilateral pleural effusions. On theme flexible bronchoscopy with bronchial 
wa gs was performed. Postoperative diagnosis: Pilus colored-fluid emanating from his right lower lobe 
as tine of a bronchial esophageal fistula (not considered to be a serious adverse event). The bilateral bronchial 
washings showed benign bronchial pulmonary components in the inflammatory debris. No malignant tumor cell 
population identified. The patient remained extremely weak and oonn  the patient was noted to be more 
since the bra 6  copy. The patient was afebrile. stable. Lung sounds were 
decreased throughout Heart rate and rhythrn were regular. He was tachycardic and his abdomen was soft, non-
with no masses. There was positive bowel sound in all four quadrants. He had-no lower extremity edema. A 
chest x-ray  resolution of the previous pneumonia. Laboratory values showed potassium 3.5, calcium 7.7 
and glucose 175 (no units or reference ranges pro_ . 6  6 ). The patient's breathing_became more labored and oxygen 
saturation remained low despite treatment. The investigator was concerned about cancer despite the negative 
biopsy, but it was decided that the patient could not tolerate an open lung biopsy. The patient's pro !  osis was noted 
as likely to be very limited. On the patient was afebrile, vital signs were stable. Urine output noted to be 
950m1 with a.positive valence of 1189 ,int over 24 hour period. Electrolytes were okay. Blood urea nitrogen was 13, 
creatinine 0.8, white blood cell count 1.1., haematocrit 36.9 and platelet count 135,000.(no units or reference ranges 
Pr ). A chest x-ray did not show any significant changes. Laboratory values had not showed any evidence of 
. AN cultures-had been.negative. Or111111111. the patient .was.. V.be no longer breathing, with 
no-response to stimufl. The patient was-pronounced dead at 02:12 on the The cause of death was 
reppecOtas respiratory fadure grade V. Further .information will be request    autopsy was performed. At the 
time of the patients death he had not recovered from the event of lymphangetic spread. It was reported that 
maintenance phase study drugs were discontinued or the patient was taken off the protocol on the In 
the 6  e    ' of investigator, both the events were not related to study drugs or protocol procedures.111.111.1  is 
linked.to o  -r case for same patient: UW01004001942 Update 11-Aug-2010: Additional information received 
kW. investigator on 05-Aug-20141. Changed event term to lymphangetic spread and added fatal event of respiratory 
Print Time: 02-MP-2014 11:09 AM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 431 of 661 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
failure per y physician, updated listedness and relatedness assessments. Added extensive event details, 
laboratory data, further medical history, concomitant medications and treatments. Narrative and relevant fields 
accordingly. Update 20-Oct-2010: Additional information received on the 14-Oct-2010 from the 
investigator. Added folic acid and Vit B12 as supplementation medications. Changed study drug and protocol 
pro 6..  a relatedness for respiratory failure to not related. Added that autopsy was not done. Added morphine 
allarvy tomedical history. Updated corresponding fields and narrative accordingly with new information.