 This Clinical trial caseell11111.11Eudract number unknown) concerns a 67-year-old Caucasian male patient. 
The patient's medical history included: Non-small celllung cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic 
bronchitis,   a  tine heart failure, election fraction of 40%, bilateralneurapathy and lower extremity edema 
(resolved). The patient was a smoker and drank alcohol. Concomitantmedication included folic acid, 
cyriagebalarnin and dexamethasone for prophylaxis, ipratropium 0 . Mai sulfate and ftuticasene 
proprionate/salrneterol xinoloate for shortness of breath, promethazine hydroch e   andlorazepam for nausea, 
lopetamide hydrochloride for diarrhoea, hydrocodone bitartrate/paracetamol and morphine sulfate for chest wall 
pain. The patient was not receiving any diuretics, antipsychotic medications, chlorpr00- ide, carbamazepine, 
cytioposphamide, viriblastine, amitriptyline, haloperidol, selective seretonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI), 
mono.arnine oxides* (L4A0)inhiteleire or non-steroidal anti-inflarrirnatories (NSAID). The patient was enrolled in a 
randomized, open-label, phase 3 study of pernetrexed plus  0.00 atin andbevecizurnab ' ; 0;   by maintenance 
pernetrexed and.bevaciz o versus pactitaxel plus c    e  ' tin and bevacizumab by maintenance 
bevacizurnab in,patients with Stage Ill B or IV nonsquamous Non-small cell lung cancer. On 31-Aug-2009, the 
pritientbegan intravenous study drugs pernetrexed 500.m.gim2, carbopiatin 6 AUC and .0:0- .   15 mg/kg, on 
dayone may 21 days, for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer stage IV. The last dose of ca 0...o tin 
realthled.prier to the event was on 02,Nov-2009. After six cycles (date of last dose 02-Nov-2009)the patient 
continaedmaintenance treatment with pernetrexed and bevacizurnab from 23-Nov-2009. The date of last dose of 
pernettexedend..bevecizumab received prior to the event was 13-Jul-2010. In Jun-2010, a computerised 
. -terhogram ( T) showed stable disease and no evidence of progreesion. On an unknown date the patient 
 t for his chemotherapy and re-ported that he had had several days of fevers and decreased oral intake. He 
fet.f.ft was perhaps a viral problem, but had not had any fever for 24 hours prior to the visit. The patient's sodium 
*veils were reportedly low. He was given intravenous fluids. The study drugs were held from 03-Aug-2010. On  
NMI approximatelyilitmonths after last dose of c 000 atin and elltlays after last receiving pernetrexed 
and.bevacizurnab, the patient was hospitalised due to hyponatremia grade ill and hernoplyais grade II. It was 
reported that the patient returned to the clinic for re-evaluation andhis sodium levels had continuedto decrease 
126 ). He also reported he had been having fevers of 1.01402 (not units provided). Laboratory results from 
were as , normal range in brackets: blood urea: 21 mg/cIL (0.6-1.3), ::0.00 sodium: 126 mmol/L 
136-145), Blood chloride: 90 rnmol/1 (98-107), Alanine aminotransferase: 27 U/L (3065). A medical review 
reported that he had had some sinus problems, water eyes, some problems with markedly decreased appetite and 
constipation_ He was also reported to have hypovoiemic dehydration. He was coughing (productive, yellow 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 11:09 AAA if a field Is blank, there is na data for that field Page 518  of 681 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Reportinformation 
spplsani,..bad some blood in the sputum, wheezing, pain with deep inspiration and baseline shortness of breath. He 
al neuropathy in his feet bilaterally and was very sensitive to sold. A physical examination showed: no 
140.4iStress. Did not appear comfortable. Weight: 22.0; Blood pressure 100/60; Temperature: 98.3; pulse: 84; 
:assOrations., 24; Head, eyes, nose and throat: normoceptialic, atraumatic, mucosa dry, nook  0  ; Chest: lungs 
dear to auscultation without rates, rubs or rend* Cardiovascular: regular rate and rhythm  ,o  t murmur, gallop 
or n)0;.  4.1   : soft, no rebound or guarding; Extremities: no evidence of lower extremity edema; Neurological: 
patient was alert and appropriate, moved altextremities. On an unknown date the patient underwent 
sis for pleural effusion. Pathology and culture reports were negative. On an unknown date, the patient 
was found to have pneumonia (not reported as a serious event) and was treated with unspecified antibiotics. 
P   s pneurnoniae was cultured as a specific organism. The patient also received "veno.clyness and 
pantoprazole for o  0 : ylaxis. The patient experienced gradual worsening of his respiratory status. He develeoped 
worsening.tachypnea. A CT scan showed no pulmonary embolus. The patient had increased consolidation with 
worsening disease as well as some chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The patient was placed on bi-level 
positive airway pressure (BIPAP), secondary to hypoxemia which did not significantly improve his respiratory 
distress. awes decided to proceed with comfort measures. At this time the patient had all his oral medications 
stopped an0 was .placed on continuous infusion of  .0  Co ine and lorazepam. The patient was transferred to hospice 
SW, and,re'ceived palliative care untL his death on from : ing disease progression. Cause of 
i*Ikwas reported as non-small cell lung cancer Sillirolgiression). No autopsy was performed. The events of 
IMitpogiiiibiorSa and herno.ptysis were ongoing at the time of the patient's death. The study investigator considered 
thosoositetbyporiatremia to be unrelated to pemetrexedur carboplatin, but related to bev.acizurriab, and the event 
of his to be unrelated to any of the study drugs. Neither event was considered-related.to protocol 
urea, and both events were considered related to disease progression. Edit 113Aug10: LAS statement was 
*OS. Update .31,-Aug.20113:  ..so':.o  al.information.received-frorn investigator on 24-Aug-2010.. Added 
b. 0,0 medications details, changed action taken with o  rexed andbevacizumab to discontinued and 
00 14w:dote. Added relatedness to carboplatin and protocol procedures. Narrative and relevant fields updated 
accordingly. Update 11-0c1-2010: Additionalinformation received from Investigator on 05.-Oct-201.0. Added event 
of death With causality oleatreported. Updated causality assessment for both events, added outcome of events 
prior to tie*- , added further event details and laboratory results. Narrative and relevant fields updated accordingly. Update t2 fit-201.0: Additional information received from investigator on 06-Oct-201-0. Deleted event of death as it 
was confirmed that the patient died from disease progresssion, which was unrelated to study drugs or protocol 
0 0 (0, 0 es. Receded cause of death to malignant neoplasm progression and added that no autopsy was 
performed. Narrative and relevant fields updated accordingly.