This clinical trial case concerns a 66 year old Caucasian male. The patient's medical history 
included chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), haemorrhoids, diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, 
hypertension and gastrooesophageal reflux disease. Concomitant medications included: folic acid and vitamin B12 
for chemotherapy prophylaxis as per the protocol, olanzapine for depression, metformin for diabetes, trazodone 
hydrochloride for insomnia, carvedilol for hypertension, furosemide for COPD, metoclopramide for prevention of 
gastroparesia, valsartan for hypertension, loratadine for hypercholesterolemia, omeprazole for GERD and 
oxycodone hydrochloride with paracetamol for chronic back pain On 24-May-2010, the patient received first 
pemetrexed 500mg/m2 in combination with carboplatin 6AUC and bevacizumab 15mg/kg, intravenously, all on day 
one every 21 days for the treatment of stage IIIB or IV non-small cell lung cancer. The patient received the last 
doses of all three study drugs in in induction phase of the study on 04-Aug-2010. No further doses of carboplatin 
were administered. The patient continued on arm A into the maintenance phase of the study on the 25-Aug-2010 
and continued to receive pemetrexed and bevacizumab at the previous doses. This was the last dose of study 
drugs to be administered prior to the event onset. On the 28-Aug-2010 the patient developed diarrhoea CTC grade 
III. On 30-Aug-2010, six days after 1st receiving pemetrexed and bevacizumab, the diarrhoea was considered 
serious for other reasons, as it had worsened. The patient was treated with atropine sulphate/diphenoxylate 
hydrochloride and loperamide. Despite this treatment the patient developed weakness CTC grade 111 (not reported 
as a serious adverse event) and his patient care provider (PCP) had been giving the patient intravenous fluids 
(IVFS) in his office three times a week. On the 04-Sep-2010, 11 days since the last dose of study drugs and one 
month since the last carboplatin dose, the patient developed shortness of breath CTC grade II. It was noted that the 
patient had this previously but there had been a deterioration when compared to the baseline. The event was 
considered to be serious - other reasons 'worsened over baseline - unknown aetiology'. No corrective treatment 
details were reported. On the 0.11.1beWays since the last dose of pemetrexed and bevacizumab, and an 
unspecified amount of time since the last carboplatin dose, the patient was admitted to hospital with diarrhoea and 
shortness of breath. Laboratory data Included oxygen saturation 97 (units not reported) on the_- While 
in the hospital, the patient received intravenous fluids for dehydration and he was evaluated for diarrhea. 
Electrolytes were replaced as needed. Chest x-ray was unchanged for shortness of breath.The patient received 
cholesevelam hydrochloride. Colonoscopy was done due to bloody stools and it was negative except for internal 
and external hemorrhoids and a small fissure. Patient received packed red blood cells for anemia (not reported as 
serious adverse event and he responded well. The patient recovered from the events of diarrhea and shortness of 
breath on On this date the patients hemoglobin and shortness of breath were stable and unchanged. 
Patient was able to take daily food and liquid adequately. Patient was discharged home in good condition olio 
...Discharge medication included. choestyramine for diarrhoea, clonidinem, doxycycline and lovastin, 
atropine sulphate/diphenoxylate hydrochloride and loperamide and cholesevelam hydrochloride. No action was 
taken with the study drugs as a result of the event and they did not result in the permanent discontinuation of the 
patient from the study. The investigator stated that the events were not related to pemetrexed, bevacizumab, 
carboplatin or protocol procedures. The investigator commented that these were not common side effects from 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 15 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
these drugs and that dehydration was secondary to diarrhoea. The cause of the shortness of breath was not 
deteremined. Update 25-Oct-2010: Additional information received on the 13-Oct-2010 from the investigator: 
Added start and stop dates study drugs and carboplatin dose. Changed as reported event term of dehydration to 
diarrhea and reassessed expectedness, added event outcome, changed relatedness for event with carboplatin to 
not related. Added discharge date and summary. Added folic acid and vitamin B12 as concomitant medications. 
Updated corresponding fields and narrative accordingly with new information.