This a case concerns a 66 year old Caucasian female patient. The patient medical 
history indUdeci: underlying chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis, 
pyodemia m in the lower extremity, high cholesterol, tobacco abuse, chronic bronchitis, 
Supraventriculrar Tachycardia (SVT), stage IV lung cancer, hypertension, bone metastases, hysterectomy and 
allergy to. a On. Concomitant medications included: oxybutynin for bronchitis, loperamide hydrochloride for 
a, stiprazolarn for anxiety, pregabalin for neuropathy, furosemide for swelling, ondansetron hydrochloride 
for nausea, morphine s to for pain, advair discs (generic anme unknown) for chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease, tipral XL (generic name unknown),for hypertension and levofioxacin for bronchitis. On 27Aug2010, the 
patient was started on pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 Intravenously (IV) in combination with carboplatin 6 AUC IV and 
bevacizurnab 15mg/kg IV; all on day one and every 21 days, for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer 
(N LC.) On 17Sep2010, the patient received the last dose of study drugs (cycle II) prior to the event. On 
the patient's husband contacted site to report she had been unresponsive at home for two days. It was 
discussed with theiatient's primary care physician and the patient was sent to the emergency room for evaluation. 
On the same day,Odays after initially receiving the study drugs and ildays after last dose of study drugs, the 
patient was ed into the hospital with a diagnosis of unresponsive grade three. Upon arrival to the hospital 
patients b '00o pressure was 56/30 (units not  a  ed) and was poorly responsive. After admission to the hospital, 
the patient was further diagnosed with hypercapnic respiratory failure grade IV with pH of around 7, acute renal 
failure IV with creatinine of 8.83 (units unknown), creatinine kinase was elevated at 1285(units unknown) with 
troponin of 1.46 (units unknown) and septic shock grade IV. Laboratory details on alllibivere as follows: 
white n 0 cells: 8600 (units unknown), lymphocytes 10, monocytes: 12, hemoglobin 12, mean cell volume: 96, 
platelets count 00 0  e  e s 0 0 : 141, potassium 5.4, chloride 105, partial carbon dioxide: 18, international 
normalised ratio was 1 and prothrombin time was 25; units not provided for all tests. Electrocardiogram revealed: 
sinus rhythm, ventricular rate of 92, normal PR, QS and QT intervals, fair R-wave progression across the 
0 00  0' - with nonspecific ST-T wave changes. Cardiac enzymes were normal. Chest x-ray showed increased 
interstitial markings bilaterally with no volume loss, pneumothorax or effusion and no free air under the diaphragm. 
Patient was put on van and was given intravenous fluids and was also supported with vasopressin and 
norepineshrine bitartarate. The patient was also treated with unspecified antibiotics including antifungal therapy. It 
was r 'that the patient was waking up and opening her eyes on the ventilator and her pH improv 3. On 
the patient was discharged from the hospital and was transferred to hospice care. On 
the patient died due to respiratory failure. It was reported by the investigator that this was related to disease 
0..0  0 ssion. No a 0 o y was preformed. The patient had not recovered from any of the events at the time of death. 
Therapy with study drugs was discontinued on the The study investigator stated that all of the events 
were neither related to study drugs or protocol p  -cures. Update 29-Oct-2010: Additional information received 
on the 26-0c1-2010 from the investigator: Added bevacizumab as additional study drug. Added new serious events 
of hypercapnic respiratory failure, acute renal failure and septic shock. Added that patient died due to respiratory 
failure. Changed relatedness for the event of unresponsive to No (with study drugs and protocol procedures). 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field Is blank, there is no data for that field Page 226  of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
Added medical history, concomitant medications, laboratory tests, treatment details and action taken with study 
drugs. Updated corres. e  o'ng fields, narrative and PSUR comment accordingly.