This spontaneous report from a physician via company representative concerns a 9-year-old female from the 
United States: 1-1103204528. 
The patient's height and weight were not reported. The patient's medical history and concurrent conditions 
included: Crohn's disease. It was not reported if the patient had a history of drug abuse/illicit drug use, drank 
alcohol or smoked cigarettes. 
The patient was treated with infliximab, recombinant (lyophilized powder, intravenous) 5 mg/kg initiated on an 
unspecified date in 2010 for Crohn's disease. Concomitant medications included acetaminophen, 
diphenhydramine hydrochloride, and methylprednisolone sodium succinate, all for premedication. 
During the patient's first infusion in 2010, the patient experienced a slight reaction of hives, hypotension and 
flushing. The events resolved on an unspecified date. The second infusion was completed without incident. The 
patient received pre-medication prior to the third infliximab infusion consisting of acetaminophen, diphenhydramine 
hydrochloride and methylprednisolone sodium succinate. During this infusion, the patient experienced a severe 
reaction including palpitations, dyspnea and flushing. The infusion was discontinued. The outcome was not 
reported for those events. 
This report was serious (medically significant). 
Additional information was received from a physician following the completion of targeted follow up questionnaire 
on 15-JUL-2013. 
The patient's initials and date of birth were updated. The patient's ethnicity was not reported. The patient's medical 
history and concurrent conditions included Crohn's disease (2-year history), nausea, asthma and pancreatitis 
(reported as ''episode of pancreatitis 1 month prior). The patient had no known food or drug allergies. The patient 
was treated with infliximab initiated on 31-AUG-2010 (previously reported as 2010) for Crohn's disease. 
Concomitant medications included hydroxyzine; ondansetron for nausea, methylprednisolone sodium succinate, 
esomeprazole magnesium, metronidazole for Crohn's, and parabetamol as premedication. The patient 
approximately received a total of 3 infusions. On 16-OCT-2010 (conflictingly reported that pre-medications taken on 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 71 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
18-OCT-2013), after 15 minutes into the infliximab infusion, the patient experienced sternal pain, facial flushing, 
tachycardia, dyspnea and emesis. The infusion was stopped. The events had lasted for 15 minutes and the patient 
was re-administered with infliximab infusion. The events recurred or worsened after the re-administration. One hour 
following the re-administration, the patient developed mild chest flushing and "prurience" at IV (intravenous) site. 2 
hours following the re-administration, the patient developed urticaria on trunk, arms and legs. Infliximab infusion 
was stopped and the patient was treated with Atarax (hydroxyzine) 25 mg per oral. 6 hours following re-
administration of infliximab urticaria resolved. The scheduled infusion time of infliximab was more than 2 hours. The 
patient was not premeditated prior to next infusion. It was reported that "last infliximab infusion was 1 month prior". 
The patient had recovered from urticaria, dyspnea, emesis, sternal pain, tachycardia and facial flushing on 16-OCT-
2010. The outcome for palpitation and slight flush to chest was not reported. Additional reporters details were 
updated in reporter screen.