This case, manufacturer control number 2010US-39779 from UNITED STATES refers to 15 infants of unknown 
age and gender who developed Drug toxicity that resulted in death after receiving Pseudoephedrine Unk, Unk for 
unknown indication. 
This case was reported in a literature. 
Per the report, Data are presented from the National Association of Medical Examiners' (St. Louis. MO, U.S.A.) 
Pediatric Toxicology (PedTox) Registry. A total of 839 case reports have been submitted to the registry. 
Per the report, in 15 infants, blood pseudoephedrine concentrations ranged between 0.07 mg/L and 13.0 mg/ L, 
with a mean concentration of 3.55 mg/L. 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 281 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
Case ID; 7689458 
Authors Comment ''These data are not well controlled in terms of testing methodology or cause of death . 
determinations and should not be used as the sole source of information when assessing whether or not a death is 
caused by one of these sub stances. Further data and controlled studies are needed to work toward establishing 
lethal concentrations of certain drugs and toxic substances in children, and the reporting of cases to the PedTox 
Registry is encouraged." 
The event outcome was reported as fatal at the time of this report. 
The case is deemed serious. The event is unexpected as per the US PI of Pseudoephedrine. Medical reviewer 
assessed the event to be possibly related to suspect drug in view of temporal association as per WHO UMC 
system for standardized causality assessment. 
Case outcome: Fatal 
F/U#1: 23-Aug-2013 (Significant) 
Full text article was received to the case was follow up. Significant information was received regarding the patient 
death details, events, lab test, patient details and product. 
This case referes to a 4 months old infant. 
The patient also experienced the following event (PT): Death 
This case was reported in the literature. This literature contains 39 valid case reports for Ranbaxy. This case refers 
to Patient 15 of the Appendix 2 of the article. 
The action taken with the suspect product was updated to 'Not applicable'. 
Lab test were updated. 
Patient death report: 
Cause of death: Sudden unexplained death in infancy 
Patient index number as per the appendix 2: 900324 
Comments: was tranfused during agonal period; medical examiner suspicious of pseudoephedrine toxicity; blood 
Print Time' 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 282 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
carbinoxamine 0.06mg/I, blood dextromethorphan 0.7mg/I 
Reported cause of death: Sudden unexplained death in infancy 
As per the report, In 15 infants blood pseudoephedrine concentrations ranged between 0.07 mg/L and 13.0 mg/L. 
with a mean concentration of 3.55 mg/L. 
Cause-of-death information is the opinion of the certifier and may not be accurate. In some cases, 
pseudoephedrine levels were also measured in tissues or body fluids. 
The data do not allow definitive statements about the toxicity of pseudoephedrine at given concentrations. 
Concentrations falling in the upper portion of the range should certainly be viewed with suspicion, however a paucity 
of data exists concerning oseudoephedrine levels in infants. Baselt reported a level of 66 mg/L in a child who 
ingested at least seven 60-mg tablets (1983, Poisiodex), a concentration much higher than the highest level 
observed in the above data. A blood level of 6.0 mg/L was reported in a 3-month-old who died after accidental 
ingestion of an unspecified amount of pseudoephedrine (blood carbinoxamine was 0.4 mg/L) (Am J Emergency  
Med 1989; 7{5):495). A Medline search provided information that pseudoephedrine has been associated with each 
of the following conditions but not necessarily in children: a pseudoscarletina dermatitis,. contact dermatitis, seizures 
in an infant, rhabdomyolysis, central nervous system hemorrhage, hallucinations in a child, and hypertension. Also, 
pseudoephedrine is reportedly secreted in breast milk and crosses the placenta. 
Case outcome: Fatal 
Ranbaxy medical reviewer's comment: 
The case is deemed serious and unexpected as per the USPI. Based on available information, the possible 
association of the events to the company suspect product could not be completely ruled out as per WHO LIMO 
system for standardized causality assessment.