This investigator initiated clinical trial case, concerns a 46 year old 
Caucasian female patient. The patient's medical history included: non-small cell lung cancer, ovarian cyst, viral 
myocarditis as a child, tubal ligation, and tobacco use. Concomitant medications included warfarin sodium, senna 
alexandrina, omeprazole, zolpidem tartrate, citalopram, magnesium chloride anhydrous, ondansetron 
hydrochloride, hydromorphone hydrochloride, multivitamin, and oral contraceptive. It was indicated that the patient 
was advised to start taking folic acid, although it was not reported if the patient started the folic acid. On 20Jul2010, 
the patient did receive vitamin B12 injection in preparation of receiving pemetrexed. The patient received 
cetuximab (Erbitux) 330 mg intravenously (IV) in combination with pemetrexed (Alimta) 570 mg and carboplatin 522 
mg on day one every days beginning on 20AUG2010 for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. Prior to the 
event, pemetrexed and carboplatin were last received on 250ct2010, with cetuximab last received on 01Nov2010. 
On 25Oct10, pemetrexed and carboplatin was discontinued. On 08Nov10 and 15Nov10, cetuximab was held due to 
grade 2 decreased hemoglobin levels; noted by investigator no additional serious adverse event (SAE) needed. Her 
appetite has decreased, but she was pushing herself to eat three meals a day. Her weight was stable, she had 
worsening grade 2 fatigue, but no fever or chills. Her back pain was described as occurring when lying down and 
measured seven out of ten on the pain scale. She reported that the pain improved when she took 
oxycodone/paracetamol. She had no chest pains and an occasional cough. No hemoptysis except for occasional 
streaks of blood after epistaxis. The cause of the constricted breathing was not entirely clear. The computed 
tomogram (CT) of the neck and chest showed no obvious obstructing lesions. On this day the patient was 
considered to be taking a break from study medications and planned to see her Ear/Nose/Throat (ENT) physician 
the next day. Treatment included two units of packed red blood cells and escitalopram for depression/anxiety. On 
11111111111111 ways after pemetrexed and carboplatin last received and days after cetuximab was last received, 
the patient was hospitalized for increasing shortness of breath, fatigue, lower back pain and complaints of feeling 
constriction of breathing. Patient had a computerized tomography (CT) of the chest and ultrasound of soft tissue in 
the neck which demonstrated adherent thrombus along the medial wall of the distal internal jugular vein; did not 
meet SAE criteria. Laboratories reported were white blood cell count (WBC) 13.3, hemogobin (Hgb)8.4, hematocrit 
(Hct) 24.8, platelets 98,000, neutrophil count 10,000, sodium 140, potassium 3.2, chloride 106, bicarbonate 23, 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 604 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
blood urea nitrogen 7, creatinine 0.6. Other laboratory results collected on MS included: WBC 13.6, RBC 
2.94, Hgb10.5, Hct 30.4, and platelet count 102. On MO results were WBC 10.6, RBC 2.42, Hgb 8.7, Hgb 
25.0 and platelet count 88.Treatment for thrombus along the medial wall of the distal internal jugular vein included 
warfarin and enoxaparin. On an unspecified date after starting enoxaparin and warfarin, the patient developed 
hematuria and these medications were held briefly. On an unspecified date, enoxaparin was resumed, however 
warfarin was not. Serial CTs of the chest and neck were compatible with progressively increasing lymph nodes in 
the perijugular, right hiliar, peritracheal, and subcarinal areas. Retropharyngeal fluid cleft was seen as well. Also 
seen were increasing right pleural effusion and a small left pleural effusion. ENT physician saw the patient and 
performed laryngoscopy. There was no obstruction. On the admitting films the patient had a new small bilateral 
pleural effusions and very small area of poorly defined density in the right lateral lung " possilby developing 
pnuemonia." (not considered to be a serious event). She underwent a guided thoracentesis of the lung and 700 ml 
of amber colored serious fluid was aspirated from the right side. Repeat radiography on 10Nov10, showed no 
change. On Inn a swallowing study showed the esophagus to be normal without evidence of compression or 
stricture and no evidence of esophageal leak or aspiration seen. A CT of the neck showed low density material 
within the prevertebral/retropharyngeal soft tissues suggestive of an infectious or inflammatory process. Peripheral 
enhancement of this was not seen. Concern was raised about a possible retrophyaryngeal abscess. Airway was 
patent. Superior mediastinum conclomerate adenopathy was seen with low density area anterior to the trachea 
possibly consistent with necrotic lymph nodes. Mild swelling in the superior mediastinal fat cannot exclude the 
possibility of mediastinitis. Sclerosis of T3 vertebral body and the clavus suggestive of osseious metastatic 
disease. She was treated with ertapenem and vancomycin intravenously. The patient was afebrile but the white 
count was noted to be 19,000. Because of bilateral pleural effusions and possible developing pneumonia, on 
IOW patient underwent guided thoracentesis of the lung, with relief of symptoms. Onall11111,411days since 
last receiving pemetrexed and carboplatin and 20 days since last receiving cetuximab, patient had a repeat chest 
CT that showed superior vena cava obstruction (SVC). An emergent radiation oncology consult was obtained and 
the patient was seen. On111011110 the patient's hemoglobin and hematocrit (H&H) dropped to 8.2 and 23. 
Treatment included multiple units of packed red cells. The patient received radiation therapy and was removed 
from the study due to the event of adherent thrombus along the medial wall of the distal internal jugular vein on 
On an unspecified date, the outcome for the event adherent thrombus along the medial wall of the 
istal internal jugular vein was considered recovering. Despite multiple attempts to control the patient's medical 
problems, significant complications related to progressive cancer developed. The patient experienced hemolytic 
anemia and was started on prednisone. On 22Nov10, cetuximab was discontinued; noted by investigator, patient 
was in the hospital at this time , no additional SAE needed. Ong after insertion of pleurx catheter, multiple 
attempts were made to drain pleural effusion. On MOM the patient deteriorated significantly with a drop in H&H, 
5.3 and 15. The anemia was contributed to acute blood loss and spontaneous pelvic hemorrhage along with 
hemolytic anemia and disseminated intravascular coagulation. 0111111.111 patient's platelet count dropped to 
55,000. Patient was transferred to intensive care unit (ICU). She was transfused with multiple units of platelets, 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 605 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
fresh frozen plasma, cryoprecipitate and packed red cells. Patient was started on morphine and fentanyl. A vascular 
surgery consult was obtained to assess the patient for a SVC stent. Physician felt that the patient should continue 
with radiation therapy and an SVC stent would not be beneficial. After transfer to ICU or. the patient 
continued to deteriorate and developed delirium. Around 9:30 in the morning, the patient deVeloped sudden onset 
of bradycardia and hypotension and possible pulseless electrical activity. The patient became unresponsive with 
fixed dilated pupils and there was some question of underlying cerebral hemorrhage related to coagulopathy. On 
MUM at 935 in the morning, the patient expired from disease progression and hemorrhage (captured as fatal 
event). It was not provided if an autopsy was performed. In the opinion of the study investigator, the event SVC 
was possibly related to study medications and not related to study procedure. An assessment of relatedness was 
not provided for the cause of death events of disease progression and hemorrhage. Update 06Dec10: Additional 
information received from investigator on 03Dec10. Added SAE terms SVC and hemorrhage, date and cause of 
death, hospital admission and discharge dates, laboratory results, medical procedures, medical history, treatment 
and concomitant medications. Updated narrative. Update 10Dec10: Additional information received from 
investigator on 08Dec10. Removed event "adherent thrombus in distal right internal jugular vein, grade 3" (per 
investigator did not meet serious criteria); Amended relatedness of study procedure (for SVC syndrome event) from 
possibly related, to unlikely related and study drugs to possibly related for all three; amended cetuximab 
discontinuation date; added laboratory results (dated wand 411111. and other laboratory data; added 
additional details of the patient's presenting symptoms. Updated narrative.