This clinical trial case concerns a 60-year old Brown female patient. The medical 
history of the patient inc u ed hypertension an is o enac allergy. The patient was an ex-tobacco user (stopped in 
2009). Alcohol use was denied. Concomitant medications included dexamethasone, vitamin B12 and folic acid as 
supplementation therapies and morphine for pain. On 23-Nov-2010, the patient first received study drugs 
pemetrexed 680 mg and carboplatin 529.5 mg, frequencies not provided both intravenously for lung cancer. The 
last doses of study drugs prior to the event were received on 23-Nov-2010 (first cycle). On 28-Nov-2010, six days 
after the last doses of study drugs, the patient ex erienced dyspnea grade 3 and suspected respiratory infection 
(not reported as serious adverse event). On the patient was hospitalized due to dyspnea. A thorax x- 
ray performed on howed bilateral pulmonary hypotransparency, small left pleural effusion and 
atelectasis. The pa ien r d as corrective treatment macro-nebulization, non invasive respiratory support, 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 526 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
bronchodilators and antibiotic (moxifloxacin). She recovered from the event on -was discharged from 
hospital on this same day and was sent to palliative treatment. The study drugs were permanently discontinued on 
10-Dec-2010. The investigator stated that the event dyspnea was not related to study drugs and protocol 
procedures. Update 23-Dec-2010: Additional information received on 22-Dec-2010 from site. Added two reporters 
to the case. Added patient origin, weight and height. Changed patient number. Added patient medical history. 
Added concomitant medication morphine start and stop dates, frequency and dose. Added the concomitant 
medication moxifloxacin. Added study drugs doses and routes. Changed action taken with study drugs from no 
change to drug permanently discontinued on 10-Dec-2010. Added the corrective treatments with non invasive 
respiratory support, bronchodilators and antibiotic. Added x-ray results. Changed patient outcome from not 
recovered to recovered on Added that patient was discharged from hospital. Changed relatedness 
opinion from not reported to no re ated. Updated narrative and corresponding fields.