This clinical trial case concerns a 78-year old Caucasian female patient. The medical history of the 
patient included dyslipidemia, hypothyroidism, anxiety, hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD). Concomitant medications included folic acid, vitamin B12 and dexamethasone as prophylaxis, docusate 
sodium with ferrous fumarate for anemia, hydrocodone for pain, levothyroxine for hypothyroidism, furosemide for 
edema, alprazolam for anxiety, vitamin C as supplement, metoprolol for hypertension, sennoside A+B for 
constipation, famotidine for gastroesophageal reflux disease, simvastatin for hyperlipidemia, potassium chloride for 
hypokalemia and loperamide hydrochloride for diarrhea. On 26-Oct-2010, the patient first received study drugs 
pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 and carboplatin 6AUC, both intravenously (IV), every 21 days for advanced non-small cell 
lung cancer of non squamous histology. The last doses of study drugs prior to the serious event were received on 
07-Dec-2010. On 11111111.1111111111110ays after the last doses of study drugs, the patient presented to emergency 
room with severe shortness of breath and upon exams she was admitted for x-rays, thoracocentesis and oxygen. 
On showed increased pleural effusion grade 3 comparing with computerized tomograms from 
07-Dec-2010. The patient also experienced the events of respiratory failure, grade 5 and pneumonia, grade 3 on 
On a thoracocentesis was performed and 1050 mL of fluid was successfully removed. 
An x-ray performed on showed reduction of the left side pleural effusion. The patient did nGot remcov er afropm ith e events of increased pleural effusion, respiratory failure or pneumonia at the time of death. On the patient died due to respiratory failure secondary to pneumonia caused by pleural effusion. An autopsy 
was not performed. The patient continued in the study until she died. The investigator stated that the event of 
increased pleural effusion was not related to study drugs or protocol procedures. It was also stated that pleural 
effusion was present at baseline. In the opinion of the investigator, the event of respiratory failure was not related to 
study drugs or protocol procedures, however, was secondary to pneumonia caused by pleural effusion. In the 
opinion of the investigator, the event of pneumonia was not related to study drugs or protocol procedure, however, 
was caused by pleural effusion. Update 21-Dec-2010: Additional information received from site on 20-Dec-2010: 
Added fatal event of respiratory failure, action taken to study drugs. Update 08-Feb-2011: Additional information 
received from the site on 07-Feb-2011. Update to Narrative with the event of pneumonia, onset date and causality 
for the event of respiratory failure, autopsy not performed. Update to Events tab; entered the event of pneumonia 
with expectedness completed; onset date for the event of respiratory failure changed to MN= in related to 
study conduct fields, entered no; autopsy done changed from unknown to no, causality changed from not reported 
to no for pemetrexed and carboplatin.