T is re o f er sonsored interves I clinical trial rotocol, 
, concerns a 63 year old 
fema e patient of unknown origin. The medical history included: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and was a 
tobacco user. Concomitant Medication(s): CITALOPRAM HYDROBROMIDE , GABAPENTIN , MORPHINE 
SULFATE , OXYCODONE HYDROCHLORIDE, PARACETAMOL , RANITIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE , 
MAGNESIUM OXIDE and WARFARIN SODIUM On 23-Aug-2010 the patient commenced pemetrexed 443 mg 
every three weeks and temsirolimus 10 mg weekly (both intravenous route of administration and both for non-small 
cell lung cancer). Patient had received four cycles. The last dose of pemetrexed was administered on 25-Oct-2010 
and last dose of temsirolimus was administered on 08-Nov-2010. On 08-Nov-2010 scans showed progression of 
her disease hence her treatment was discontinued. On...11.9 over-Okays) after last dose of 
pemetrexed was administered and 22 days after last dose of temsirolimus was administered the patient presented 
to emergency room with increased confusion for two days, hypoxia and fever. A chest computerised tomography 
scan revealed worsening opacity in the right lung as well as a pulmonary embolism reported as embolism grade 4 
and pneumonia grade 2-serious for hospitalisation. Laboratory data included: white blood cell: 14.2, haemoglobin: 
9.3, prothrombin time: 29.4, international normal ratio: 2.88, units and reference range not reported. Head 
computerized tomogram showed no evidence of disease. A lower extremity dopplers revealed no evidence of deep 
vein thrombosis. Patient placed on cefepime and levofloxacin for possible grade 2 pneumonia and had been 
swtiched from wafarin sodium to enoxaparin sodium for her pulmonary embolism. A lower extremity doppler was 
negative. The patient remained hospitalised for observation. The medications were also adjusted to help with 
confusion and the symptoms improved and hence was discharged on According to investigator the 
events were reasonably possibly related to the study drugs. Protocol procedure relatedness was not collected.