This spontaneous case had been received to the company by a physician via a sales representative with additional 
information received from the physician concerns, a 62-year-old male patient. The patient had a medical history of 
small cell lung cancer was diagnosed in Jan-2010, hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD). The patient received chemotherapy (cisplatin-paclitaxel) in four cycles previously. Concomitant medication 
included: folic acid, pantoprazole, theophylline, silybum marianum, metoclopramide hydrochloride, supp. analgetica 
forte (unknown medication), magnesium lactate/pyridoxine hydrochloride, ofloxacin, indometacin, bisoprolol 
fumarate, dodronate disodium, nutridrink and methylprednisolone. It was unknown whether the patient was taking 
vitamin B12. The patient received pemetrexed (Alimta) 985mg, intravenously at once for the indication of small cell 
lung cancer on 15-Dec-2010. On an unknown date (time to onset was unknown the patient suffered from severe 
generalised bacterial infection as well as fungal infection. On11111011111badays to onset, he was admitted to 
hospital again due to development of mucositis. In while the patient was in hospital (des. o - o as seven 
to eight days after starting pemetrexed), pancytopeMminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), bacterial 
sepsis, fungal sepsis and renal failure manifested. Laboratory date from an unknown date included: carbamid urea 
at 53.10m , creatinine of 246umo1/L, estimated glomerular filtration rate of 24.73mUmin/1.73M2, gamma-
glutamyltransferase of 144U/L, C-reactive protein of 347.2 mg/L, white blood cell count of 0.53G/L, haemoglobin of 
9.2 GIL and thrombocyte of 8G/L. The patient was given darbepoetin alfa (erythropoietin therapy, granulocyte 
colony stimulating factor (unspecified), ciprofloxacin (pereteral antibiotic), cefatozin (antifungal treatment/unknown 
generic name), U  azole, o  en and enoxaparin sodium (low molecular weight heparin).Then the patient died of 
acute respiratory failure on . No autopsy was performed. All events were considered serious for 
o y significant reasons.No further details were provided. It was unknown whether the patient had restarted 
pemetrexed after 15-Dec-2010. In the opinion of reporting physician the events were related to pemetrexed 
treatment. The physician further added the events of respiratory distress, DIC, and bacterial/fungal sepsis were 
most probably caused by severe generalised bacterial and fungal infections. Update 15Feb2011: Additional 
o ation on 10Feb2011 from the physician. Added severe generalized bacterial and fungal infection as 
adverse effect as weft as fungal sepsis . Also added medical history, concomitant medications, labs, and treatment 
m lions. Change event from sepsis to bacterial sepsis. Updated the causality from not reported to yes. Fields 
and narrative were updated.