This clinical trial case  gMNIMMAIIIIMIIMMO concerns a 67-year-old Caucasian male 
patient. The patient's medical history included chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), arterial 
0  . nsion, atrial fibrillation, and thrombosis of the left renal artery. Concomitant medications included 
salbutamol, ipratropium bromide and fluticasone proprionate/salmeterol xinafoate for the indication of COPD, 
spironolactone for arterial hypertension, digoxin, diltiazem hydrochloride and furosemide for atrial fibrillation, 
dextropropoxyphene/metamizole magnesium for pain and an unspecified low molecular weight heparin for 
thrombosis of the left renal artery. The patient first received intravenous pemetrexed (Alimta), 500 mg/m2 and 
intravenous cisplatin 75 mg/m2, in the induction phase of the study for the indication of advanced nonsquamous 
non-small cep lung cancer, on the 20-Oct-2009. The patient last received pemetrexed and cisplatin prior to the 
event on the 30-Dec-2009 and the patient completed the induction phase of the study on this day. On the 11-Jan-
2010 a 000 0,  tensed tomography scan was performed and the patient's disease was noted to be stable. It was 
anticipated that the patient would commence the blinded maintenance phase of the study on the 20-Jan-2010, but 
the patient did not attend. The site personnel contacted the patient by phone, and the patient refused to attend any 
hospital - o o  ntments stating he felt very bad but refused to go to the emergency room. The patient also refused 
hospftal home care too. On 20-Jan-2010, the patient was discontinued from tihme studmy duae top re fusal of continuing with the scheduled visits. The patient finally went to the emergency room on days after last 
receiving pemetrexed and cisplatin, due to hemoptysis CTC grade 3, dyspnea CTC grade 3, thoracic pain (not 
considered a serious event) and bad hemoptysis CTC grade 3, and was admitted to the oncology service. On the 
09-Feb-2010 the patient's partial arterial oxygen pressure was 83.6 mmHg (normal range 90-100). No other details 
gomf labo ratory tests or 
o ive treatments were provided. The patient did not recover from events. On_ 
almost Illirnonths after last received study drugs and over  days post-discontinuation from the trial, the 
patient died in hospital. The cause of death was severe acute respiratory failure. Autopsy examination was not 
per, o.  In the investigators opinion the event of hemoptysis and dyspnea were unrelated to pemetrexed, 
cisplatin and protocol procedures and were due to lung cancer disease. The investigator stated while there were no 
o o Cal confirmations of disease progression, the investigator reported that there were clinical signs of 
sion. The events were considered clinical progression of the disease. Update 17-Jun-2010 upon data 
ma erg reconciliation change request on 16-Jun-2010 added patient number. Update 27-Jan-2011: 
Additional information received from the investigator on 25-Jan-2011. Added event of death, date and cause of 
death, rationale for events, and confirmation for the date the patient was discontinued from the study as 20-Jan-
2010. Change serious criteria for hemopt sis from life-threatening to serious for hospitalisation and hospital 
admission date from Ito . Narrative, PSUR comment and relevant fields update. Update 
03-Mar-2011: Additional information received from the investigator on 02-Mar-2011. Removed SAE death as it was 
confirmed unrelated to study. Cause of death was provided as severe acute respiratory failure. Narrative, PSUR 
comment and relevant fields updated 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 156  of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information