This clinical trial cas 
oncerns a 67 year-old Caucasian male. 
The patient's medical history included hyperuricaemia, headache, dyspnoea, and hyperthyroidism . Concomitant 
medications included dimetindene maleate, levothyroxine sodium, allopurinol, pantoprazole sodium, ibuprofen, 
zoledronic acid, folic acid, and cyanocobalamin. 
On 17Nov10 the patient first received necitumumab (11F8) 800 mg, pemetrexed (Alimta) 950 mg, and cisplatin 143 
mg, all for the treatment of NSCLC. Frequency and route of administration not provided. Prior to the event, the 
patient last received pemetrexed and cisplatin on 04Jan11 (third infusion for each) and necitumumab on 10Jan11 
(sixth infusion received). The patient presented to the hospital due to stomach pain. On Min days since 
last receiving pemetrexed and cisplatin, and eight days since last receiving necitumumab, the patient was admitted 
for herpes esophagitis grade 3. The patient remained hospitalized and the event was considered not recovered. 
During the hospitalization, the patient developed neutropenia and pneumonia (type of pneumonia was not 
determined). Pneumonia occurred in connection with the sooroesophagitis. On chest X ray (in contrast 
to previous exam on 03Jan11) showed a marked streaky, reticular, primarily interstitial pattern bilaterally. In the 
lateral image, the lung/diaphragm borders were no longer sharply delineated in the left dorsobasal region. The 
pneumonia worsened and on ...I the patient died. Cause of death reported as pneumonia due to metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer. Per investigator, last CT showed no progression of disease. No autopsy was 
performed. Portion of death certificate translated: "Directly leading to death, illness:hypercapnia, foregoing 
reasons, diseases that have caused the immediate cause of death in a) with the original cause (underlying cause) 
in last place; respiratory insufficiency, metastatic lung cancer." 
In the investigator's opinion the event of stomach pain was possibly related to necitumumab, pemetrexed, and 
cisplatin, but not related to protocol procedures. The study investigator considered the event of pneumonia not 
likely related to IMC11F8, unrelated to study protocol and possibly related to pemetrexed and cisplatin. Pneumonia 
probably caused by infection and not by neoplasm progression (CT showed no progress) so no SAE for neoplasm 
progression. 
Update 28JAN2011: Additional information recieved from study investgator on 27JAN2011. Patient medical history 
and concomitant medications provided. Addtional event of pneumonia added. Death on reported. 
Narrative updated 
Update 23Nov11: Additional information received from the site on 22Nov11. Changed cause of death from 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 534 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
respiratory insufficiency to pneumonia due to metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Narrative updated. 
Update 12DEC2011: Additional information received from the site on 06DEC2011. Translated chest x ray report 
provided. Death certificate translated as illegible. Narrative updated. 
Update 01Feb2012: Additional information received from the site on 01Feb2012. Pneumonia probably caused by 
infection and not by neoplasm progression (CT showed no progress) so no SAE for neoplasm progression. Event 
term of stomach pain changed to cause of herpes esophagitis. Pneumonia changed from related to protocol 
procedures to not related to protocol. Type of pneumonia was not determined. Pneumonia occurred in connection 
with the sooroesophagitis. Portion of death certificate translated: Directly leading to death, illness:hypercapnia. 
foregoing reasons, diseases that have caused the immediate cause of death in a) with the original cause 
(underlying cause) in last place; respiratory insufficiency, metastatic lung cancer. Narrative and case fields 
updated. 
Update 10May12: Additional information received from another manufacturer on 09May12 requesting query to be 
sent; no new information added to case. 
Update 17Jan2013: Per SAE reconciliation SAE term of neoplasm progression deleted (previously indicated in 
narrative per info received 01Feb2012 no SAE for neoplasm progression); cause of death indicated as pneumonia 
due to metastatic lung cancer (not progression of lung cancer), coded to pneumonia. Information already contained 
in narrative. No change to narrative.