This solicited literature case was identified on 29 March 2011, from an article: Tatsumi K. Study related to genetic 
investigation of genetic markers in drug-induced lung disorder. Research report by a su-group. Research Project on 
Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Regulatory Science. This summary case concerns unspecified number of 
patients of unknown demography, some of whom experienced fatal acute interstitial pneumonia like pattern and 
drug-induced lung disorder while receiving amiodarone hydrochloride (amiodarone), methotrexate, mesalazine and 
leflunomide for unknown indication and docetaxel (taxotere)and paclitaxel for cancer.On an unknown date, the 
patients started treatment with docetaxel (5 patients), amiodarone hydrochloride (1 patient),methotrexate (1 
patient), mesalazine (1 patient), leflunomide (lpatient), paclitaxel (1 patient) and developed drug-induced lung 
disorder. A total of 3 cases treated by pemetrexed sodium hydrate (alimta), cisplatin (CDDP)/ navelbine (vinorelbine 
ditartrate, NVB) combination and amiodarone hydrochloride were presented with acute interstitial pneumonia (AlP)-
like patterns, and use of ventilator was required in 2 cases. While 1 patient died during the clinical course, 2 
patients survived the events with concomitant treatment with steroid pulse and immunosuppressive drugs. One out 
or 3 cases was associated with interstitial pneumonia as an underlying disease, and the other was given 
amiodarone hydrochloride after bypass surgery for myocardial infarction. Other patients presented with ground-
glass opacities responded well to steroids. It was unknown if autopsy was performed or not.No concomitant or past 
drugs were reported. The outcome of the drug-induced "lung disorder" was not reported. There was insufficient 
information if therapy with amiodarone hydrochloride, methotrexate, docetaxel, mesalazine, leflunomide, and 
paclitaxel were ongoing or not.The author assessed the fatal acute interstitial pneumonia like pattern and drug-
induced "lung disorder" as related to the use of amiodarone hydrochloride, methotrexate, docetaxel, mesalazine, 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 628 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
leflunomide. and paclitaxel.Follow-up information was received on 06 April 2011:Additional information was 
requested from the author without any success.Sanofi-aventis company comment dated 06Apr2011: the available 
information regarding this collective literature report is tooincomplete for an assessment. Missing information is 
being requested in relation to demographic data, indication for use, cancer staging, doses and dates of cancer 
chemotherapy, concomitant medications, medical history, and treatment.Pfizer is Marketing Authorization Holder of 
[methotrexate sodium] in the reporter's country. This may be a duplicate report insituations where another 
Marketing Authorization Holder of [methotrexate sodium] has submitted the same report to the regulatory 
authorities.Follow-up (19Apr2010): Follow-up information received in response to query sent from Pfizer to LP 
Sanofi Aventis. It was confirmed that case 2011SA019953 and case 2011076035 were separate articles. There wer 
no fatal event in both of these cases. 2011SA019953 is a single patient case wherein pemetrexed (ALMITA) was 
captured as a suspect drug with generic name amiodarone. The patient did receive a combination of cisplatin 
(CDDP)/ navelbine (NVB) but the combination is a non-sanofi drug. (journal reference: Tatsumi K. Study related to 
Genetic Investigation of Gene Markers in Drug-induced Lung Disorder. Research report by a sub-group. Research 
Project on Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Regulatory Science).Follow-up (22Apr2011): Translated article 
received from Sanofi Aventis and patients identified. Health and Labor Science Research Grants Research Project 
on Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Regulatory Science Study related to Genetic Investigation of Gene Markers 
in Drug-induced Lung Disorder Research report by a Sub-group Clinical Research on Drug-induced Lung Disorder 
Sub-investigator: Koichiro Tatsumi Professor at the Department of Respiratory Medicine, School of Medicine, Chiba 
University.Summary of the study :Drug-induced pneumonia was mostly caused by anticancer drugs. Some cases 
were presented with acute interstitial pneumonia (AIP)-like pattern, for which use of ventilator was required. 
Nonsegmental ground-glass opacities were observed in most cases, and the symptoms responded well to steroids 
and immunosuppressive drugs. The study suggested that it may be important to classify drug-induced lung disorder 
by chest CT in prognostic prediction as well as treatment selection.A. Study Objectives :Regarding lung disorder 
due to newly introduced therapeutic drugs for refractory diseases and cancers, we conducted a clinical research 
and analysis on onset patterns of such drug-induced lung disorder mainly focusing on radiological and clinical 
findings.B. Study Methods :We studied cases of drug-induced lung disorder seen at Chiba University Hospital from 
2004 to 2010.C. Study Results:All cases of drug-induced lung disorder were classified by presumed causative 
agents, and anticancer drugs were found to have caused the drug-induced lung disorder the most as in 14 cases: 
10 cases of single-drug therapy including 5 cases of Taxotere (docetaxel hydrate; DOC), 1 case of fluoropyrimidine 
(TS-1), 1 case of lressa (gefitinib), 1 case of Tarceva (erlotinib hydrochloride), 1 case of Alimta (pemetrexed 
sodium hydrate) and 1 case of paclitaxel, and 4 cases of combination-drug therapy including 1 case of DOC/TS-1, 
2 cases of gemcitabine (GEM)/TS-1 and 1 case of cisplatin (CDDP)/Navelbine (vinorelbine ditartrate; NVB). There 
were 5 cases of drug-induced lung disorder due to other drugs: 1 case each of methotrexate (MTX), Pentasa 
(mesalazine), Arava (leflunomide), Ancaron (amiodarone hydrochloride) and Hangeshashinto (Chinese herbal 
medicine). Bilateral segmental ground-glass opacities were observed in most cases. A total of 3 cases treated by 
Alimta, CDDP/NVB combination and Ancaron were presented with AIP-like patterns, and use of ventilator was 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 629 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
required in 2 cases. While 1 patient died during the clinical course, 2 patients survived the events with concomitant 
treatment with steroid pulse and immunosuppressive drugs. One out or 3 cases was associated with interstitial 
pneumonia as an underlying disease, and the other was given Ancaron after bypass surgery for myocardial 
infarction. Other patients presented with ground-glass opacities responded well to steroids.D. Discussion: Drug-
induced pneumonia was mostly caused by anticancer drugs. Some of these patients were associated with 
interstitial pneumonia or chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD) as underlying diseases, and drug-induced 
pneumonia occurred in most cases due to second or third line treatments after radiation therapy or anticancer drug 
treatment. Many of these patients responded well to steroids and immunosuppressive drugs. Even in some cases 
presented with AIP-like patterns showed good treatment response.E. Conclusion :Although further case studies 
were necessary, the study suggested that it may be important to classify drug-induced lung disorder by chest CT in 
prognostic prediction as well as treatment selection.F. Health Risk Information:None.This patient was identified as 
having taken Alimta, cisplatin/navelbine and Ancaron causing an acute interstitial pneumonia like pattern and drug-
induced lung disorder. The patient survived the events with concomitant treatment with steroid pulse and 
immunosuppressive drugs.Follow up (02Nov2011) Upon further investigation this article was confirmed to be a 
study report and assessment adjusted appropriately.Case Comment: Pfizer Company Clinical Evaluation: Based on 
the information provided, a contributory role of pemetrexed, cisplatin/navelbine and amiodarone to interstitial lung 
disease and lung disorder cannot be excluded.Follow up information was received on 2 November 2011 :The 
outcome of the event of acute interstitial pneumonia was changed from fatal to unknown. The case origin was 
changed from unsolicited to solicited. Pemetrexed, cisplatin and vinorelbinetartrate (vinorelbine) were added as 
suspect drugs and reporter reference was ammended.