This literature case, reported by a physician, concerns a 41 year old female patient of unknown origin. Medical 
history included: epitheloid malignant pleural mesothelioma with uncontrolled thoracic pain with severe dyspnea. 
The patient had no history of smoking and was negative for exposure to asbestos. Concomitant medications were 
not reported. It was unknown whether the patient received treatment with folic acid and cyanocobalamin. The 
patient received treatment with pemetrexed (unknown manufacturer) in combination with carboplatin, for treatment 
of epitheloid malignant pleural mesothelioma. No dosing information or start date was provided. Approximately 
seven days since commencing pemetrexed treatment, the patient was admitted to hospital for dyspnea at rest, 
dysphagia and sharp, severe thoracic pain, unresponsive to increasing doses of analgesics, which moreover, 
induced severe constipation. Even though no improvement was achieved with the symptoms, the second course of 
the same chemotherapy regimen was activated in Jan-2007. Before the patient was discharged from hospital, 
further tumor progression was observed so the patient was scheduled for supportive therapy only. After one month, 
her condition unexpectedly improved with considerable relief to chest pain. A CT scan showed disease stabilisation 
in Feb-2007 with better ventilation of the contralateral lung. This prompted further therapy with pemetrexed alone. 
After the first three courses, CT scan showed a reduction of the mass in the left lung field, now occupying the left 
hemithorax without any sign of pleural effusion. After the fifth cycle, CT scan showed that the primary lesion in the 
peripheral lung parenchyma had a diameter of 30 mm, without any dislocation of the mediastinal structures. In 
Aug-2007, at the end of treatment, the patient was completely asymptomatic and disease response was confirmed 
with a CT scan. She started clinical and radiological follow-up until Jan-2008 when CT scan showed progressive 
disease. Treatment with pemetrexed and carboplatin was restarted without any benefit. In May-2008 treatment 
with gemcitabine hydrochloride (unknown manufacturer) and vinorelbine was started. Eight days later, she was 
hospitalised for vinorelbin-related intestinal subobstruction, with subsequent rapid and full recovery and gemcitabine 
was continued, CT scan in Jul-2008 showed further response. At the time of the report, the patient was alive. 
In the opinion of the reporter, treatment with pemetrexed was not related to the events of dyspnea, dysphagia, 
sharp severe thoracic pain and severe constipation. An opinion of relatedness was not reported for progressive 
disease. Lack of drug effect / without any benefit was related to pemetrexed treatment. In the opinion of the 
reporter, treatment with gemcitabine was not related to intestinal subobstruction as vinorelbine was discontinued 
and the patient rapidly recovered whilst gemcitabine treatment was continued. Literature Citation: Zilembo N. Vitali 
M. Pietrantonio F. Platania M. Del Vecchio M. Bajetta E.. An unusually large pleural mesothelioma with an 
outstanding clinical response and long lasting survival: a case report and literature review. Tumori. 2010; 96(6)