This case, described in the literature, concerns a 74-year-old male. His medical history and concomitant drugs 
were not provided. He had a smoking history of 56 pack-years. On unknown date X-ray and computed tomography 
of the chest showed an oval mass in the right lower lobe (RLL), a round mass in the left upper lobe (LUL), a 
mediastinal lymph node swelling, and bilateral emphysema. The RLL mass was much larger than the LUL mass. 
Therefore, the RLL mass was considered as the major primary tumor, and the LUL mass was initially considered as 
a metastatic lesion. He received pemetrexed (Alimta) 500 mg/m2 (day1, every 3 weeks) and unknown dose of 
0 0'0 atin (area under the curve 5, day 1, every 3 weeks) for the treatment of lung adenocarcinoma in the RLL as 
first line chemotherapy beginning on unknown date. After two cycles, the sizes of the RLL mass and mediastinal 
lymph node were markedly reduced, indicating a partial response, however, the size of the LUL mass increased. 
On unknown date the patient received one cycle of second line chemotherapy: gemcitabine (Gemzar) 1000 mg/m2 
(days 1 and 8, every 3 weeks) and unknown dose of carboplatin (area under the curve 5, day1, every 3 weeks), and 
after that, one cycle of third line chemotherapy: docetaxel 60 mg/m2 (day 1, every 3 weeks). On unknown date the 
LUL mass was refractory to both regimens, and the patient's respiratory status deteriorated, making oxygen 
adminis on exertion necessary (the events were considered as medically significant by the company). He was 
then treated with fourth line chemotherapy: S-1 80 mg/m2 (days 1-14, every 3 weeks). On unknown date, after four 
cycles, the size of the LUL mass decreased, indicating a partial response. On unknown date his respiration 
improved to the point at which he could walk without oxygen administration. Pemetrexed and the carboplatin 
regimen were not effective for treating the LUL mass, and its progression adversely affected the patient's 
respiratory status. The authors considered that LUL mass refractory was related to pemetrexed and gemcitabine. 
The causality for respiratoy status deteriorated an disease progression were not provided. This case was discribed 
in the article: Umemura S, Yamane H, Yano T, Hoshika T, shiote Y. et al. Synchronous double primary lung 
cancers with different response to pemetrexed. Anti-Cancer Drugs 2011; 22(5):473-476.