This clinical BIM case: 
concerns an 82-year-old female. Medical History: Pulmonary embolism, Hypokalemia, 
Renal failure, and Hypothyroidism. Concomitant Medication(s): aprepitant, dexamethasone, lansoprazole, 
levothyroxine sodium, ondansetron hydrochloride, potassium chloride, ergocalciferol, and senna alexandrine. The 
patient received supplementation with folic acid. Supplementation with vitamin B12 was not reported. On 04-MAR-
2011, the patient received the first doses of pemetrexed (500 mg/m2) and (cisplatin 75mg/m2) for treatment of non-
small cell lung cancer. On 13-MAR-2011, the patient had a single episode of low grade fever (non-serious) 
to the patient's daughter. On IP days since last receiving pemetrexed and cisplatin, the 
patient was hospitalized with severe, exertional shortness of breath (SOB), and evaluation of exertional fatigue and 
extreme tiredness for 4-5 da s with 2-3 episodes of non bloody, watery diarrhea on the morning of admission with 
abdominal tenderness. On she also experienced nausea and vomiting (non-serious) and 
pancytopenia (non-serious). Laboratory results on admission were: white blood count (WBC) 2.6, hemoglobin (Hgb) 
6.7, platelet count 43 and serum potassium 3.8 (no units provided). Diagnostic studies included a chest x-ray that 
was negative except for known lung lesion, an abdominal computed axial tomograph showed mild diverticulosis 
and a pelvic computed axial tomograph was without diverticulosis. The patient received treatment with antibiotics 
and an antifungal, Intravenous fluids and a blood transfusion. Once admitted, the patient experienced no further 
diarrhea and her SOB and fatigue reduced significantly. On her white blood cell count was 12.6, 
hem 0n '  was 8.5, platelet count was 94, serum potassium was 4.1, an unspecified laboratory test was negative 
for lactoferrin, 8 culture results were negative post 5 days, and stool culture was negative for clostridium difficile 
toxin post 7 days. Onallini. the patient was discharged from the hospital with enoxaparin and warfarin. 
The action taken with the study drugs was not provided. Additional information has been requested. The 
investigator's opinion of causality of severe exertional shortness of breath, diarrhea, fatigue and abdominal 
tenderness to study drugs and protocol procedures was not reported.