This 58.year-.010 female subject was enrolled in an openWabel.study-for the treatment of non-small cell.lung cancer. 
The subject pazopanib at 800 mg daily from 09 September 2009 arliatravenoaa infusion 
pernetrexed at 500 ingin2 cyclic (ever days) from 09 September 2009. On jays after 
the start of.wopartib and..pem.etrexed,.the subject developed  rade 4 increased dyspnea and grade 2 or moderate 
abdominal pain The subject was hospitalised. On the subject died due to disease progression. 
The subject  was treated with oxygen and.pain.medication. Treatment .with pazopanib and pernetrexed was 
tinued. The and abdominal pain were unresolved .at the time of death. An autopsy was not 
ed. The investigator .considered that there was no reasonable possibility that the increased dyspnea and 
alpainfnayhave -been caused by pazopanib and .pemetrexeri and that there was a reasonable possibility 
that -the disease progres.sion-may have been caused. by pazopanib. Diagnostic results (as reported by site): X- 
ray: no-ileus symtoms diagnosed((no further results available for external hospital.) Investigator Comments: 
Patient went to other hospitaloi, because of abdominal pain and increasing dysprsoe. Patient stayed in 
hospital for farther observation and has been .performed which proves progression of NSCLC. No 
lieussymtomatic could be patient suddenly died due to progression of disease. Copy of letter 
has been sent to house doctor on 8ji2OlO and from house doctor to our site on 14jan2010. no more information 
as of today 18kilay20111 - disease progression - related to - Pazopanib" Additional comments: "Drillinis 
;0  about this aa , 0 , . al pain, he mentioned subjectapfollowed at this site and died in another clinic (disease 
ProgrePSIW was suspected as the cause of death).-but according to DAUB subject had presented the same 
pain and he does not believe subjectillodied of rapid disease .progression, he thinks there might have 
sornetbingelsebut unfortunately an autopsy was not performed."