This investigator initiated trial reported by a Study Investigator, concerns a 67 years old Caucasian 
male patient. Medical history: x- o er, systemic arterial hypertension, chest pain grade 2, dyspnoea grade 
2, cough grade 2 and hyporexia grade 1. According to the investigator, the cause of dyspnoea grade 2 is the basic 
disease of lung cancer. Concomitant Medications: folic acid and vitamin B12 as supplementation therapy; 
carbinoxamine maleate + paracetamol + phenylephrine hydrochloride for pain; metarnizole sodium and tramadol, 
both for chest pain; and losartan for systemic arterial hypertension. On 09-Jun-2011, the patient received 
pemetrexed (Alimta) 920mg each days in combination with carboplatin 634mg eachalidays, for the treatment of 
lung cancer. The last dose of study drugs prior the serious event was on 09-Jun-2011. On - lays 
after starting the study drugs treatment, the patient was hospitalized due to a diagnosis of respiratory infection 
grade 3 with symptom of dyspnoea grade 3 (this symptom of dyspnoea grade 3 was not reported as a serious 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 543 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
event and was not considered by investigator as worsening of the preexisting dyspnea). At the time of the event the 
absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of the patient was 2675 (baseline was reported as 9204; both units were not 
reported). It was stated that the respiratory infection was pneumonia, which was considered serious only due to 
hospitalization. The risk factor for the respiratory infection was reported as tobacco use in the past. As corrective 
treatment for the event of respiratory infection grade 3 the patient received amoxicillin + clavulanate potassium. 
Because of the event and the clinical worsening, the study drugs were permanently discontinued on 27-Jun-2011. 
On 4.111111111 the patient recovered from respiratory infection grade 3. On- the 
patient was disc arged from hospital and he was referred for palliative care. The study investigator considered the 
events related to the study drugs (pemetrexed or carboplatin). However, he did not relate the events to protocol 
procedures. Updated 08Jul11: After internal review. Corrected the investigator ID for the second reporter. Update 
02-Aug-2011: Additional information received from initial reporter on 29-Jul-2011. Added the following relevant 
medical history: chest pain grade 2, dyspnoea grade 2, cough grade 2 and hyporexia grade 1; Added stop date of 
study drugs, changed action taken from no change to drug discontinued, and added dechallenge results as 
positive; Changed start date of dexamethasone from 12-May-2011 to 08-Jun-2011, and added stop date of this 
drug; Added concomitant medication tramadol; updated indication for use of concomitant medication metamizole 
sodium, changed from pain to chest pain; added serious event of respiratory infection grade 3; added amoxicillin + 
clavulanate potassium as corrective treatment for respiratory infection grade 3; Changed relatedness from no to 
yes (for study drugs); assessed expectedness for new serious event respiratory infection grade 3. Updated 
narrative and correspondent fields. Update 04-Aug-2011: Per internal review corrected patient height (changed 
from 1.73 cm to 173 cm). Update 31-Oct-2011: Additional information received from initial reporter on 24-Oct-
2011. Added another HCP reporter; added ex-tobacco user as medical history; Added the cause of the patient pre-
existing dyspnea; added information that the study investigator did not considered symptom of dyspnea grade 3 as 
a worsening of the preexisting dyspnea and deleted event of dyspnea grade 3 because the investigator asked to 
not consider it as a serious event (initially considered serious due to life-threatening and hospitalization, so case 
priority was downgraded); added that the respiratory infection grade 3 was pneumonia, so the serious event coding 
was changed to pneumonia; added risk factor for the respiratory infection; added ANC value at the baseline and at 
the time of the event. Updated narrative and corresponding fields.