This case taken from a literature article concerns an adult patient of unknown age, gender or ethnicity. The 
patient's medical history included unresectable stage III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Concomitant 
medications included folic acid, cyanocobalamin, and dexamethasone. The patient received pemetrexed, 
500mg/m2. over ten minutes every twenty one days, for the treatment of unresectable stage III NSCLC, beginning 
on an unknown date. The patient received carboplatin and cetuximab as concomitant chemotherapy medications. . 
The patient was also assigned to receive a cumulative dose of 70 Gy in 35 daily fractions of two Gy, via thoracic 
radiation therapy (TRT). On an unknown date, the patient was hospitalized for grade three pneumonitis; respiratory 
toxicity and pulmonary embolism. The event of grade three pneumonitis; respiratory toxicity was complicated by 
in o  cic recurrence. The events of grade three pneumonitis; respiratory toxicity, pulmonary embolism and 
intrathoracic recurrence were considered serious for medically significant reasons. These events were reported to 
lead to the patient experiencing respiratory failure. On an unknown date the patient died from respiratory failure. It 
was unknown if an autopsy was conducted. No further details were provided. The outcomes of the events of grade 
three pneumonitis; respiratory toxicity, pulmonary embolism and intrathoracic recurrence were unknown. It was 
unknown what action was taken with regards to pemetrexed treatment. The reporting health care professionals did 
not know if the event of antra is recurrence was related to pemetrexed therapy. The reporting health care 
professionals offered the opinion that the remaining events were related to pemetrexed treatment. Govindan 
R.Bogart J.Stinchcombe T.Wang X.Hodgson L.Kratzke R. et al. Randomized phase II study of pemetrexed, 
carboplatin, and thoracic radiation with or without cetuximab in patients with locally advanced unresectable non-
small,cell lung cancer: Cancer and leukemia group B trial 30407. Journal of Clinical Oncology. 2011. 29(23). 3120-