This literature case, reported by health care professionals concerns an adult patient (median age was 66 years 
(range 32 to 81 years) of unknown gender and origin. Medical history included locally advanced unresectable non-
small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). It was reported that the patient required to have histologic or cytologic diagnosis of 
NSCLC, inoperable stage IIIA or stage IIIB disease, measurable disease according the Response Evaluation 
Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0 to 1, age 
greater or equal to 18 years, and weight loss greater or equal to 10% in the past 3 months. Laboratory 
requirements were as follows: an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of greater or equal to 1,500/L, platelets greater 
or equal to 100,000 L, a calculated creatinine clearance (CrCI) of greater or equal to 45 mL/min, bilirubin 1.5 x 
upper limit of normal (ULN), AST and ALT less than 3 x ULN, and alkaline phosphatase less than 3 x ULN. Patients 
were required to undergo FDG-PET imaging, computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest and abdomen, and 
pulmonary function tests before enrollment. Patients were required to have a mediastinal lymph node (LN) of 
greater or equal to 2 cm by CT scans; if the mediastinal LN was less than 2 cm, then biopsy confirmation of 
malignant involvement in mediastinal LN was required (regardless of the results of PET imaging). Patients with 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 547 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
contralateral mediastinal LN disease (N3) were eligible if disease could be encompassed within a single radiation 
field. Patients with scalene, supraclavicular, and contralateral hilar LN involvement based on assessment of the 
treating physician; direct invasion of vertebral body; or exudative, bloody, or cytologically malignant pleural effusions 
were not eligible. Prior chemotherapy for NSCLC, chest irradiation therapy, or therapy directed at the epidermal 
growth factor receptor pathway was not allowed. Patients who were pregnant or nursing; with known 
hypersensitivity to carboplatin, pemetrexed, or a monoclonal antibody; or who were HIV positive were ineligible. 
Concomitant medication included carboplatin for the treatment of locally advanced unresectable non-small-cell lung 
cancer, folic acid, cyanocobalamin, and dexamethasone. Patient began taking pemetrexed (unknown 
manufacturer) 500 mg/m2, over 10 minutes every 21 days for four cycles for treatment of locally advanced 
unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer beginning on an unknown date. Patient also received carboplatin area 
under the curve (AUC) of six using the Calvert equation over 30 minutes and thoracic radiation therapy (TRT) a 
cumulative dose of 70 Gy in 35 daily fractions of two Gy commencing on day one. On an unknown date from 
commencing treatment patient died due to pneumonitis. It was unknown if an autopsy was conducted. Corrective 
treatment and action taken of pemetrexed at the time if death was unknown. The reporting health care 
professional stated that pneumonitis was related to pemetrexed treatment. This case is linked to: 
US201109000187, US201109000491, US201109000492. Literature Citation: Govindan R.Bogart J.Stinchcombe 
T.Wang X.Hodgson L.Kratzke R.Garst J.Brotherton T.Vokes E.E.. Randomized phase II study of pemetrexed, 
carboplatin, and thoracic radiation with or without cetuximab in patients with locally advanced unresectable non-
small-cell lung cancer: Cancer and leukemia group B trial 30407.. Journal of Clinical Oncology.. 2011; 29(23)