PROTOCOL 
A 19-year old Caucasian female patient developed dehydration and was ospi a ize ays a er the 
initiation of study treatment with pemetrexed for NSCLC. The patient later developed hypoxia related to pneumonia 
and neutropenia and died. The patient was diagnosed with non-small carcinoma to the lung and pleura with 
multiple lung nodules. She received carboplatin and Taxol with no significant response, prior to a right lower lobe 
lobectomy on-. She did well until recently, when she was found to have evidence of progressive 
pulmonary disease. This was demonstrated on a computed tomography (CT) scan showing a new pleural effusion, 
as well as other nodules. The patient enrolled in the study and was randomized to the pemetrexed only arm of the 
study. She received the first infusion of pemetrexed on 11May2006. The next day she noticed the onset of diarrhea, 
anorexia and generalized fatigue. On MEM she also felt more short of breath (SOB). The patient was 
hospitalized on.11010 for dehydration related to diarrhea, increased weakness, shortness of breath and 
cough. Upon physical examination the patient appeared frail, but comfortable and in no acute distress. The lungs 
demonstrated wheezing on the right. The left lung was clear, although there were decreased breath sounds on the 
left. She had multiple ectopic beats. She was generally weak and her skin suggested that she was quite dry and her 
oral mucosa was also dry. The physicians impression was that the patient was clearly dehydrated and admitted for 
multi e reasons, including her diarrhea that she had had ever since her recent chemotherapy. A chest X-ray on 
revealed a large left pleural effusion and an electrocardiogram (EKG) showed atrial fibrillation with 
rapid ventricular response. The patient was treated for the dehydration and diarrhea with intravenous fluids and 
!medium (loperamide Hcl). She was also treated with intravenous beta blockers. The patients he to came 
down, but she continued to go into and out of sinus rhythm throughout the hospitalization. On , the 
patient had a thoracentesis and 1500 mis of blood tinged fluid was aspirated. An abdominal X-ray that day, showed 
no obstruction. Labs showed white blood cell (WBC) count 900, Hgb 10.8, platelets 89,000, neutrophils 15 percent 
and bands 1 percent. These values demonstrated that the patient was neutropenic, anemic and thrombocytopenic. 
The patients hemoglobin dropped to 8.4 sometime during the hospitalization. Therefore, she was transfused three 
units of packed red blood cells. On the patient developed hypoxia and she had difficulties with fluid 
retention. A chest X-ray that day, shit/Wand right pleural effusion with ill defined consolidation in the left 
base of lung, consistent with pneumonia. The patient was also significantly hypotensive, making it difficult to 
administer diuretics. Given her progressive hypoxia and hypotension, it was felt that comfort care was the best 
treatment. The patient subsequently died on 11111111111. The cause of death was hypoxia related to probable 
pneumonia and neutropenia. The dehydration was considered to be ongoing at the time of the patients death. No 
autopsy was performed and no further information was provided. The investigator considered the grade III 
dehydration and the grade V hypoxia to be probably related to pemetrexed. The investigator did not provide a 
causality assessment for pneumonia or neutropenia. The patient did not receive cetuximab. ImClone assessment: 
The grade Ill dehydration, grade V hypoxia, pneumonia and neutropenia were probably related to pemetrexed. 
Follow up: Information received on 23Sep2008 provided patient outcome and additional serious adverse event 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 54 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
terms of pneumonia and neutropenia. On the patient was hospitalized for evaluation and treatment for 
diarrhea and shortness of breath. Laboratory tests performed on admission revealed a white blood cell count 
(WBC) of 0.9 k/mm3, neutrophils 78 percent, sodium 132 meq/L and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) 34 mg/dl. Arterial 
blood gases performed on the same day revealed PH 7.48, PCO2 34.0, P02 79.5 and oxygen 
saturation 96.6 percent. Stool culture on alleiwas negative for clostridium difficile toxin. Laboratory tests 
performed on _revealed WBC of 0.9 k/mm3, neutrophils 30 percent, bands 9 percent and lymphs 51 
percent. During the hospitalization, the patient was treated for dehydration due to diarrhea, pneumonia, hypoxia, 
and neutropenia. On',laborat ory tests revealed neutrophils of 15 percent, WBC 0.9 k/mm3, I m hs 72 
percent, B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) 1188 pg/ml and potassium 2.8 meq/L. On the same day, the 
patient died. The cause of death was reported as hypoxia related to probable pneumonia/neutropenia. At the time 
of the patients death, the events of dehydration, shortness of breath and diarrhea were considered to be ongoing 
with no treatment. The Investigator considered the grade IV neutropenia to be certainly related to pemetrexed. The 
grade IV pneumonia and grade V hypoxia were considered to be probably related to pemetrexed. The grade III 
diarrhea and dehydration were considered to be probably related and the grade IV shortness of breath was 
considered to be possibly related to pemetrexed. assessment: Grade 3 diarrhea and grade 4 
shortness of breath were possibly related to pemetrexed. Causa ity assessment for grade 5 hypoxia, grade 3 
dehydration; and grade 4 pneumonia and neutropenia remains unchanged. All events were unrelated to cetuximab. 
Follow up 2: Information received on 11Mar2011 provided and updated event outcome, the removal of an event 
end date and the investigators dated signature. At the time of reporting 11Mar2011, the event of grade 4 
pneumonia was considered ongoing at the time of death. The investigators assessment remains unchanged. The 
patient did not receive and treatment with cetuximab. The Sponsor concurs with the investigators assessment. 
Follow up 3: The information received on 30Mar2011 provided a downgraded event, an updated seriousness 
criterion for three of the events, updated outcomes for four of the events, and a clarification of the factors that 
caused the patients death. The investigator considered the event of grade 3 dehydration to be a result of the event 
of grade 3 diarrhea. As a result the event of dehydration was downgraded. The event of grade 4 shortness of 
breath, the seriousness criterion was updated to hospitalization (previously reported as persistent or significant 
disability). The serious criteria for the events of grade 4 neutropenia and grade 4 pneumonia were updated to life 
threatening (previously reported as death). The outcomes of the events of grade 4 neutropenia and grade 4 
pneumonia were updated to ongoing, being treated at the time of the patients death (previously reported as death). 
The outcomes of the events of grade 4 shortness of breath and grade 3 diarrhea were updated to ongoing, no 
treatment at the time of the patients death (previously reported as death). The investigator no longer considered the 
event of grade 4 neutropenia to be a contributory factor to the patients death. The investigator considered the 
grade 4 neutropenia to be definitely related to pemetrexed. The grade 4 pneumonia, grade 5 hypoxia, and grade 3 
diarrhea were considered to be probably related to pemetrexed. The grade 4 shortness of breath was considered to 
be possibly related to pemetrexed. The patient did not receive any study treatment with cetuximab. The sponsor 
concurs with the investigators assessment. PLEASE NOTE 02-Jun-2011: This case has been entered into the 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 55 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
safety database as part of the Erbitux Case Data Migration. Follow up 4: The information received on 11Apr2011 
provided a downgrade for the serious adverse event of shortness of breath. The investigator reported that the 
shortness of breath the patient experienced no longer met the criteria for a serious adverse event but was 
considered a symptom of the serious adverse event of grade 4 pneumonia (previously reported a grade 4 
shortness of breath). The event of grade 4 neutropenia remained definitely related to pemetrexed. The grade 4 
pneumonia, grade 5 hypoxia, and grade 3 diarrhea remained probably related to pemetrexed. The patient did not 
receive any study treatment with cetuximab. The Sponsor concurs with the investigators assessment. Follow up 
5: The information received on 20Jun2011 provided the investigators response to causality for the event of 
hypoxia. The investigator now considered the event of grade 5 hypoxia to be unrelated to pemetrexed and to be 
related to the patients pneumonia. For the other events the investigators assessment remained unchanged. The 
patient did not receive any study treatment with cetuximab. The sponsor concurs with the investigators 
assessment. Update 22-Aug-2011: This is a new version of case US201106000485 and 06-02-08680 received as 
part of the Erbitux migration. All information from the case noted previously can be found in this case, and the other 
case will be marked for deletion. Please note: The narrative below is from case US201103004112 which was 
identified as duplicate of this case as part of the Erbitux Data Migration. Medical history included: hypertension, 
osteoarthritis, gastroesophageal reflux. Concomitant medications included: folic acid, fluticasone propionate, 
omeprazole, vitamins NOS, lorazepam, ondansetron hydrochloride, benzonatate, transfusion with packed red blood 
cells, and oxycodone. On 11May06 the patient received the first, and only pemetrexed (Alimta) 685 mg treatment 
for NSCLC. On 1111111the patient presented to the hospital with a five da history of diarrhea, anorexia, 
dehydration, increased weakness, shortness of breath, and cough. On ays since last receiving 
pemetrexed, the patient was admitted with diarrhea grade 3 resulting in dehydration grade 3, pneumonia grade 4 
(indicated as life threatening), and shortness of breath resulting in hypoxia grade 5. Chest x-ray detected a large 
left pleural effusion. Electrocardiogram detected atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response. The patient 
received loperamide hydrochloride and intravenous fluids. On IMO an abdominal x-ray was flat and upright 
iwsithm no obstruction. Aspiration of the pleural cavity was performed: 1500 ml of blood tinged fluid was removed. On p atient developed neutropenia grade 4 (indicated as life threatening). On hest x-ray revealed 
left and right pleural effusion with ill defined consolidation noted in left base. Lab resu s: ite blood cell count 0.9, 
hemoglobin 10.8, platelets 89, neutrophils 15 percent and bands 1 percent. On 6111111111the patient died. Cause 
of death was hypoxia related to probable pneumonia. Neutropenia and pneumonia were considered not recovered 
at the time of death. An autopsy was not performed. In the opinion of the investigator, hypoxia was unrelated to 
pemetrexed; pneumonia and diarrhea were probably related to pemetrexed; and neutropenia was definitely related 
to pemetrexed. No relatedness opinion for protocol procedures was provided. Hypoxia was related to pneumonia. 
Update 24Mar2011: Non-med sig edit. Upon review noted that initial reporter was indicated as HCP No, corrected 
to HCP yes. No change to case info. Updated 31Mar2011: additional information was received from the study 
investigator on 30Mar2011. Removed dyspnea and dehydration as clinical event terms. Removed the serious 
criteria of death from neutropenia as it was not considered the cause of death. Added hospitalization as a serious 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 56 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
criteria of hypoxia. Updated the narrative. Update 05APR2011: Additional information received from the site on 
31Mar2011. Removed the stop date for neutropenia and pneumonia; changed the outcome of neutropenia and 
pneumonia to not recovered, added serious criteria of life-threatening to neutropenia and pneumonia. Narrative 
updated. Update 12Apr2011: Additional information received from the site on 11Apr2011. Removed shortness of 
breath as an event. This was removed in the 31Mar2011 update. No new information added to the case. Update 
23Jun11: Additional information received from the site on 20Jun11. Amended relatedness for event hypoxia to 
pemetrexed, changed from probably related to unrelated; added hypoxia was related to pneumonia; updated 
narrative. Update 13-Sep-2011: Upon review on 13-Sep-2011 it was determined that case US201103004112 is a 
duplicate of this report; therefore it will be deleted from the database. All information from case US201103004112 
has been captured in this case. The company considered the fatal event to be related to pemetrexed. No other new 
information added to the case.