This literature case, r, ,0 by authors who are healthcare professionals, via a literature article, concerns a 68 
year old male patient of unknown ethnicity. Medical history included exposure to asbestos during his occupational 
training, and a 0. osis of an adenocarcinoma of the lower left lobe with pronounced metastatic bone disease of 
the spine; tumour at was stage IV (cT2bN2M1). The patient was in good general condition and his 
0 ance status at the time of admission to a clinical study was 90%. Information regarding concomitant 
medication was not provided. The patient received pemetrexed (unspecified brand name), 500 mg/m2 
intravenously on day one of each three week cycle, in combination with bevacizumab (7.5 mg/kg), for the treatment 
of stage IV king adenocarcinoma, beginning on an unknown date, in the context of a clinical study. After two cycles 
of pemetrex .0 acizumab, a computerised to 0oraphy of the thorax (TCT) showed tumour remission, but 
according to a response criteria in solid tumours (RECIST), a partial remission had not yet been achieved. The 
patient continued to exhibit a good overall condition, and did not have any relevant haematological toxicity. On an 
date, 18 days after administration of the fourth cycle of pemetrexed/bevacizumab, the patient was 
admitted to hospital on an emergency basis, reason unknown. Within 12 hours, he had developed severe 
, a cough and moderate hemoptysis (he coughed up about 100 ml of 0 000). At the time of admission, the 
patient was in a significantly worsened condition, with a performance status of 30%. His blood pressure was 140/57 
mmHg, pulse rate 110/min, his respiration rate was 20/min with the administration of oxygen (14 Umin) and pulse 
oximetry s	 oxygen saturation of 80%. 13 000 tests on the day of admission showed haern0 9 00 n at 10.4 g/dl, 
 00 . at 203 10A3lul, leukocytes at 9.45 10131u1, neutroptiils at 7.99 10"3/ul, C-reactive protein (CRP) at 
316.6 mg/di, creatinine at 0.6 mg/1, calcium at 2.12 mmo1/1 and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) at 982 U/I. A 
radiograph of the thorax showed a new occurrence of bilateral infiltrate in comparison to three weeks before. A TCT 
with contrast m revealed pronounced bilateral infiltrations and frosted-glass like opacities accentuated in both 
fields of the kings. The tisnour in the vicinity of the hilus of the left lobe appeared unchanged in comparison 
to a TCT 0 i cted six weeksprior, after the second cycle of pemetrexed/bevacizumab. In differential diagnostics, 
no po '0 multiple pulmonary embolisms with haemorrhaging could be identified. According to a thoracic 
at, the changes in the parenchyma were not consistent with pneumonic infiltrates. In the absence of other 
causative factors, a diagnosis Of pernetrexed-induced pneumonitis was made. The event of pneumonitis was 
considered serious for hospitalisation and other, medically significant reasons. An emergency bronchoscopy 
showed diffuse, recent haemorrhage with the probable source of bleeding in the lower left lobe. The patient was 
administered adrenaline and the intensity of the bleeding was significantly reduced. His oxygen saturation (arterially 
measured) rose to 90% with an o supply of 10 l/min. The patient received high dose prednisolone (100 mg 
daily then reduced to 50 mg deity after one week) as treatment for the pneumonitis. The patient was also treated 
with amoxicillki and davulanic acid due to the high CRP value of 316 mg/dl, despite normal white blood cell count. 
The h 60   improved significantly within the next few days and the patient's oxygen supply was reduced to 31/min. 
The CRP values also decreased significantly (119.2, 102.2 and 132.0 mg/dl on days three, six and fourteen after 
hospital admission). The patient's overall condition gradually improved, but there was still a pronounced fatigue and 
the patient was largely bed (performance status of 50%). A follow up a radiograph showed that infiltrates 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM It a field is blank, there is no data tor that field Page 343 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
were decreasing on both sides. It was reported that the symptoms of pneumonitis improved remarkably within ten 
days. On an unknown date, whilst still in hospital, the patient experienced intermittent abdominal pain and 
constipation. Additional imaging diagnostics with a : 0 DO -ph of the abdomen and an abdominal ultrasound 
showed cons o  a with a pattern of subileus and large quantities of ascites. The ascites was considered serious 
for other, m significant reasons. The pain symptoms improved significantly following the puncture of two 
litres of an amber coloured fluid and laxative measures. Cells from the lung adenocarcinoma were detected in 
mites, resulting in the diagnosis of a progressive bronchial carcinoma due to a newly occurring peritoneal 
carcinosis. It was reported that the patient had a clearly reduced overall condition. The progressive bronchial 
carcinoma was considered serious for other medically significant reasons. Details of corrective treatment for the 
progressive bronchial carcinoma were not provided. On an unknown date, the patient was transferred to a hospice 
facility with optimization of supportive therapy. Event outcome for the constipation, ascites and progressive 
car a events were unknown. Action taken with pemetrexed was unknown. The authors considered 
the pneumonitis related to pemetrexed treatment, as they reported a diagnosis of pemetrexed-induced 
pneumonitis. No a  ' o of relatedness to pemetrexed was provided for the other events. Literature Citation: 
Hermes A, Knopf M and Reck M. Hamoptysen nach Chemotherapie eines Adenokarzinoms der Lunge mit 
Pemetrexed (English Title: Hemoptysis after chemotherapy with pemetrexed for adenocarcinoma of the lung). 
Pn . 2011 8 (4) pp 268-272.