This clinical trial case. 
, concerns a'66-year-old Caucasian male. Medical History: Non-small cell lung cancer, ype nsion, 
Hypedipidaemia, Chest pain, and Arthritis. Concomitant Medications: atorvastatin calcium, verapamil, tramadol and 
hyd o a a a ne bitartrate for inal pain, paracetamol, chondroitin sulfate, glucosamine, ibuprofen, ondansetron 
h a 0 for nausea and vomiting. The patient received supplementation with folic acid and cyanocobalamin. 
On unreported dates, the patient received the first and last doses of induction phase pemetrexed (500 mg/m2), 
carboplatin (6 AUC), and bevacizumab (15 mg/kg), all intravenously (IV) every 21 days for the treatment of NSCLC. 
On 18-Apr-2011, the patient commenced on maintenance phase drugs, pemetrexed (500 mg/m2) and 
bevacizumab (15 mg/ kg), both IV every 21 days. The last doses of pemetrexed and bevacizumab prior to the event 
were on 13-Sep-2011. On 30-Sep-2011, the patient developed right sided chest pain, dyspnea and shortness of 
breath. On 06-Oct-2011, the patient reported to the investigators site to receive his next cycle of study drugs. Vital 
signs measurements revealed a heart rate of 137 beats per minute. Study drugs were not administered and were 
held on the same day. On1111111111111., days after starting maintenance phase study treatment andedays 
since the last doses of pemetrexed and bevacizumab, the patient was hospitalized for further evaluation with right 
sided chest pain and grade 3 atrial flutter, which was also considered to be life-threatening. An electrocardiogram 
(EKG) revealed typical atrial flutter with variable conduction and heart rate approximately 97 beats. Vital signs 
measurements a blood pressure 154/89, heart rate 75, and respirations 20. An angiogram confirmed no 
evidence of pulmonary embolism and further noted the left lower lobe erhilar mass partially encasing the left lower 
lobe c hi and pulmonary artery. At the time of reporting, the patient remained hospitalized and had 
not recovered from the events. Additional information has been requested. In the opinion of the investigator, the 
grade 3 atrial flutter and right sided chest pain were related to pemetrexed and bevacizumab and not related to 
n atin or protocol procedures. The investigator explained that possible thrombosis to be ruled out. Update 13- 
Oct-2011: Additional tion received on 10-Oct-2011 from the investigator. Amended event term of 
tacky  o  to atrial flutter. Provided additional event details and diagnostic test results. Corresponding fields and 
narrative updated a .ingly.