On 200CT2011, this case was received from a certified clinical research professional on behalf of an investigator 
of an inves initiated study regarding a 54-year old Caucasian female who deve o o o pneumonitis, sepsis, 
malignant bilateral effusions, hypokalemia, presumed pneumonia, likely disease progression in the lungs 
and disease sian with  o  lb therapy. The o  atient was enrolled in 
P 0  0 
A00 , o suspect medication included pemetrexed. On 17FEB2011, she started erlotinib 100 
nig daily (medication error) on days 2-17/cycle (medication error) and pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 every three weeks 
for non-smell cell lung cancer, also reported as metastatic lung adenocarcinoma. On 15SEP2011, she initiated her 
eleventh cycle of treatment and received her last dose of pemetrexed prior to the events. On 20SEP2011, she 
subjective fevers, anorexia, decreased oral intake and fatigue and was prescribed a Z-pack (azfthromycin) 
for presumed pneumonia. On she presented to the emergency room with chief complaints of fever, 
severe dyspnea on ex  o
.J 
  and non-productive cough for several days and was admitted with sepsis. She was 
foun
-- IO=d to have a normal absolute neutrophil count (ANC) at admission. Remarkable physical examination and OI.  0 tests revealed o ia, mild hypotension and hypokatemia at presentation. On a (CT) of the chest showed ground-glass opacities. Mat ?,  t pleural e sion on sgdr ew c0o aguiase negative staphylococcus, thought to be a contaminant and negative with subsequent 
culture. No fever was documented in the hospital. The differential diagnoses included pneumonia, lung toxicity to 
edotinlb, or more likely, cancer metastasis. Pleural fluid analysis supported the diagnosis of acute infection. The 
initial source was considered most likely from the lung or some type of community-acquired pneumonia. She was 
treated with  o  ycin, cefepirne and vancomycin and had initial clinical improvement with the antibiotics. 
ary consult considered the CT findings could be due to erlotinib-induced pneumonitis and the patient 
received 7 days of prednisone every morning. However, her respiratory symptoms got worse with the steroids. A 
diagnostic bronchoscopy was deemed not safe by pulmonology consult given the concern she might become 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there Is no data for that field Page 348  of 031 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
dependent on a ventilator due to severe lung disease. On 29SEP2011, erlotinib was discontinued. On 4111111111111 
a chest x-ray showed worsening bilateral airspace disease likely due to metastatic cancer. Although the diagnosis 
of   -* ed  pneumonitis was considered possible, it was the opinion of the treating physician the events 
were most likely due to lung tumor progression with acute infection and septic syndrome. The patient was 
disc. from the study due to decreased performance status and likely disease progression in the lungs and 
lower extremity (bone metastases). She was discharged to home hospice with oxygen on..111.11. Discharge 
diagnoses 0,  , 0  sepsis, metastatic king adenocarcinoma and bilateral pleural effusions. The reporter did not 
provide a causality assessment for sepsis, malignant bilateral pleural effusions, hypokalemia, presumed 
pneumonia, likely disease progression in the lungs and disease progression lower extremity/bone metastases and 
study drugs. The reporter did not provide a seriousness assessment for presumed pneumonia, hypokalemia, likely 
disease 0 0- sion in the lungs and disease progression lower extremity/bone metastases. The Astellas medical 
reviewer assessed presumed pneumonia as medically significant and hypokalemia, likely disease progression in 
the lungs and disease progression lower extremity/bone metastases as nonserious. No further information was 
provided. Additional information was received on 250CT2011. On....lathe patient expired. 
Cause of death, death certificate and autopsy report were not provided. The reporter did not provide a causality 
assessment for the event and erlotinib therapy. No additional information was provided. - - - - - - - - - - -  Additional  
information was received on 23FEB2012. The cause of death was unknown as the patient had died at home while 
on hospice. The 00 r assessed bilateral pleural effusions (also reported as malignant bilateral pleural effusions) 
as possibly related and pneumonia, sepsis and death as unlikely related to study drugs. No additional information is 
expected. y note: From OtNOV2007, Astellas will use 4 causality categories, probable, possible, not 
related and unassessable, and not use unlikely for any cases received on or after this date, except for cases from 
ongoing studies that are using the unlikely category. Following this rule, the reporter assessment of unlikely will be 
assigned to the Astellas category of possible.