This clinical 
tigator, concerns a72 year Olitlernalopitient MedicalHistoiy: Chronic obstructive 
age, mellitus, Hypertension, Hypercapnia, Lung neoplasm malignant and Tobacco user. 
Medications): oxygen On 09-JUN-2011, the patient started pemetrexed (715 mg) even/ aftdays, 
sly (IV) for the treatment of lung cancer. On 10-JUN-2011, the patient started on erlotinib 100 mg, orally, 
days 2-19 for the treatment of lung cancer (medication error) Prior to the events, pemetrexed was last given on 18- 
A,UG-2011 and  o o on 25-AUG-2011. On days after the start of study therapyilklays after 
the last dose of pemetrexed and the day after the last dose of -i o o, and she presented to the outpatient clinic 
with complaints of weakness and IV fluids were started. A mental status change/confusion was noted so she was 
sent to the em  room (ER) where a chest x-ray showed possible pneumonia. She was treated with IV 
antibiotics arid IV meihylpredniso o  sodium succinate and was admitted to the hospital with grade 3 pneumonia, 
3 ,de1ration. and grade 2 confusion. She was rehydrated and the confusion resolved. Blood cultures from 
were negative. Oil her stool was negative for clostridium di  lie. On MIMI 
was discharged.  . The ou come of the pneumonia and discharge was not provided. On 04-SEP-2011, 87 
days after the start of study therapy, 17 days after the last dose of pemetrexed 10 days after the last dose of 
origin), the patient again presented to the ER with complaints of weakness and confusion and was admitted to the 
hospital-withgrade 3  and grade 2 confusion. She noted no nausea or vomiting. On .0  sion, a chest 
x-rays., a new pneumonia, a computerized tomogram (CT) of the head was negative, and arterial blood 
gases ,a partial pressure of P on do '0 (PCO2) of 80.7 MMHG and a partial pressure oxygen of (P02) 
Of 40 MMHG. She was treated with IV  cs. Study drugs continued to be held. All cultures were negative and 
she was discharged and agreed to enroll in hospice. It was confirmed that the two hospitalizations for confusion and 
pneumonia were considered separate occurrence as she was discharged after the first and admitted again. On an 
unknown date, the events of confusion and pneumonia were resolved. On an unspecified date, study medications 
were . j.ntly discon . Additional information has been requested. In the opinion of the investigator, the 
events of confusion, 0. o riia and dehydration were possibly related to pemetrexed and erlptinib. The events of 
in o0 00 ,o ,  e Sco of drug administration and incorrect dose administered were not related to pemetrexed or 
erlotinib. The investigator explained that the patient had been off erlotinib for approximately one week at the onset 
of confusion, o ' and dehydration. The investigator further explained that the underlying malignancy and 
aciminis of pemetrexed are alternate contributory factors and confusion was a possible consequence of 
dehydration and  ; onia. Relatedness to protocol procedures was not provided.