This spontaneous report from a nurse concerned a male child, approximately 3 years old at the time of this report 
from the United States: 1-1348523758. 
The patient's height and weight were not reported. His medical history and concurrent conditions included pediatric 
Crohn's disease. The patient was treated with infliximab, recombinant (lyophilized powder, intravenous) 115 mg (10 
mg/kg) initiated on an unspecified date for Crohn's disease. Concomitant medications included corticosteroids. 
On an unspecified date, the patient had a reaction (unspecified) during his second infliximab infusion and was 
treated with hydrocortisone. Action taken with infliximab and the outcome was not provided. 
During the 5th infusion, he developed his worse reaction with facial swelling, hives, and red eyes. The infusion was 
stopped and the patient was treated more aggressively with hydrocortisone. The infusion was restated at a slower 
rate and was given over 3 hours. 
The patient was premedicated with BENADRYL (diphenhydramine) and cortisone before his 14th infusion. He had 
a similar reaction again and the infusion was stopped. The patient was treated again (unspecified) and the infusion 
was restarted. The patient outcome was not provided for this infusion reaction. 
This report was serious (medically significant). 
Additional information was received from a nurse on 31-JAN-2012. 
This report concerns a 22-month-old male infant, Patient's initials were updated. The infant's height was 80.3 
centimeters and weight was 11.5 kilograms. The infants family history included dairy/ lactose sensitivity and the 
Print Time: 18JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 152 of 328 
rpy FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) FOIA Case Report Information 
maternal great grandfather had a colon cancer. The infant was breast fed and was found to have multiple food 
allergies on neonate formulas. The patient was treated with infliximab, recombinant 10 mg/kg once every 4 weeks, 
initiated on 04-NOV-2010 for Crohn's disease. The infant received the 2'nd infusion, on 18-NOV-2010, during which 
the infant experienced rash, blotchy eyes and arms. The infusion was stopped and hydrocortisone, prednisone was 
given as treatment. The infusion was restarted at a slower rate. It was reported that the patient received only 30 
percent of the drug as the drug went through subcutaneous route. The infant received the 5th infusion, on 14-MAR-
2011, with hydrocortisone, BENADRYL (diphenhydramine hydrochloride) and TYLENOL (acetaminophen) as 
premedication. During the infusion the infant experienced trunk rash, hives and facial swelling. The infusion was 
stopped and the patient was treated with hydrocortisone and prednisone. It was reported that the patient received 
only a small amount of drug. The infant received the 14th infusion, with hydrocortisone as premedication on 02-
DEC-2011, during which the patient had hives, facial swelling and red eyes but there were no pulmonary 
symptoms. The infusion was stopped and the patient was treated with hydrocortisone and BENADRYL 
(diphenhydramine hydrochloride). The infusion was later restarted at a slower rate. The patient had recovered from 
rash, red and blotchy around eyes, blotchy arms, hives, facial swelling and red eyes on unspecified date. The 
outcome for inappropriate route of drug administration was not reported. 
Additional information was received from a nurse on 16-JUL-2013. 
This report concerns a White patient. The infant's height was 81.9 centimeters and weight was 11.7 kilograms at 
the time of this report. The infant's medical history and concurrent conditions included allergy to dairy, allergy to 
gluten, and food allergies (egg shell, peanut and soya). The infant had previously experienced drug allergy when 
taking fish oil and corn oil. On 14-MAR-2011, the infant experienced facial edema (previously reported as facial 
swelling). The infant received the last infliximab infusion, 110 mg (also reported as 5 mg/kg/dose) once every 4 
weeks (approximate total number of infusions: 15) on 06-JAN-2012 for pediatric Crohn's disease. Concomitant 
medications included diphenhydramine hydrochloride (intravenous) for premedication, methylprednisolone sodium 
succinate for premedication and prednisone for Crohn's disease. The infant was pre-medicated with 
diphenhydramine hydrochloride (intravenous) 12.5 mg and methylprednisolone sodium succinate (intravenous) 25 
mg on 06-JAN-2012 as per the hospital infusion nurse. The infant was treated with unspecified anti-histamines, 
oxygen and steroids (unspecified) at hospital. The infant's therapy was changed to Imuran (azathioprine) 40 mg per 
day (also reported as 10 mg), initiated on 31-AUG-2012 for Crohn's disease. The infliximab was discontinued after 
the event(s) and the event(s) did not reoccur or worsen. The infant had recovered from facial edema on an 
unspecified date. The previously reported term of facial swelling was amended to facial edema. 
Print Time: 1s-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 153 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information