This glinical TOW (c,f4e, 
concerns a 62 year o  aucasiarl,Female patient Medical History: depression (grade 2) 
and'S030.01 (erade 1). The patient did not have any other risk factors for throm a penis as well as she did not 
have hletory of  :Ws or pulmonary infarction prior to the start of study drug. Concomitant medications: folic 
acid,  ; alamin, dexamethasone, sertraline, omeprazole, flunitrazeparn. The patient first-received IMC-Al2 
20mo/kgintravenous (IV) ,every  days in combination with a.; ,. trexed 00 o m2 IV every. days, and cisplatin 
75rng(m2 IV every  days for treatment of advanced nonsquamous NSCLC beginning on 05Dec11. This was the 
last dose the.patientreceived prior to the events. Ong..., the patient had hemoptysis during the night and 
presented to the hospital. On imilikompdays after receiving last dose of study drugs, she was hospitalized 
for 0- o  a. ala: 3 and throm openia grade 4 (both also considered serious for life4hreaterting). Upon 
admission,  count of 0 6tabsilehigled-Platelet   AIL and hemoglobin prothrombin time (PT) 16.5 sec, 
Irit ,o,i  ilorrnallfed ratio (INR) 1.3, The same day, she received packed red blood cells (PRBC) and platelet 
transfusions as treatment It was stated that hemoptysis was .reported as life-threatening because of the need of 
platelets and PRIM.  trans 'o , the presence of tachycardia and tachypnea and an estimated volume of 
hemonhage of 500ml in 24 hours. On MIN platelet was 45000 /uL; PT 16.7 sec, INR 1.3, Activated partial 
tbcOMbpplastin.time (aPTT) 31.2 sec. Throlbocytopenia was reported as grade 3 from 15Dec11 to 17Dec11. On 
thoracic *ray  light lung atelectasis (additional data in source document in Portuguese). On 
she recovered from the ,  00. ysis grade 3. The outcome of thrombocytopenia was recovering. It was 
considered grade 2 since according to CTC. On a follow-up thoracic X-ray showed atelectasis 
( T  aldata in source oe - A  In Portuguese). On her platelet was  ,8.6 /uL, PT 21.5 sec, INR 
1.7, aPTT 42.1 sec. One... the patient recovered from thrombocytopenia and was discharged from the 
hospital. There was no change to study drug therapy. In the opinion of the investigator, the hemoptysis grade 3 
was not related to IMC-Al2, pemetrexed or cisplatin, but was related to thrombocytopenia and lung cancer. The 
t 0,0 ,0N ,ao grade 4 was possibly related to IMC-Al2, pemetrexed, and cisplatin. Neither event was 
considered related to protocol procedure. The investigator explained that thrombocytopenia was an expected effect 
of the cisplatin and pemetrexed and the chronological sequence between the administration of the drugs and the 
event was compatible with the event. The investigator did not consider hemoptysis related to cisplatin and 
pemetrexed because these drugs caused plaquetopenia, and plaquetopenia just caused hemoptysis because of 
coexistence of a o  a  ic carcinoma. Update 22Dec2011: Additional information received from the site on 
21Dec2011. Changed patients ethnicity from Black to Caucasian, Added more platelet count result, PT, INR, aPTT 
results and thoracic X-ray on 17Dec1 la-a ;,a right lung atelectasis (additional data in source document in 
P se).  a a- ted outcome of the events and. date (recovered from hemoptysis on VIM recovering from 
thrombocytoperiia). Added: the patient did not have any other risk factors for thrombocytopenia as well as she did 
not have history of hemoptysis or pulmonary infarction prior to the start of study drug; hemoptysis was reported as 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 761  of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
life-tbreatening because of the need of platelets and PRBC transfusion, the present of tachycardia and tachypnea 
and an estimated volume of hemorrhage of 500m1 in 24 hours; the patient was still hospitalized at the time of report; 
hemoptysis was also related to lung cancer; investigator rationale of hemoptysis unrelated to study drugs, and 
bo related to cisplatin and pernetrexed. Updated narrative and corresponding fields. Update 
28Dec11: I information received from investigator on 26001. Updated thromboc 00 -nia event 
(Recovered hospital discharge date, and changed relatedness of 
bocyt o e - a event to study drug IMC-Al2 from no to yes. Narrative updated and corresponding fields.