This interventional clinical trial case regards a 53-year-old Black female. Medical history included: 
stage IIIB left upper lobe squamous ce ung cancer, hypertension, asthma, historical computerized tomography 
(CT) brain scan that was negative for brain metastasis and positron emission tomogram (PET) that was negative 
for distant metastatic disease. Eastern Collaborative Oncology Group score of 0. Concomitant medications 
included supplementation with folic acid and cyanocobalamin. On 19Mar08, the patient first received pemetrexed 
disodium Alimta), 500 mg/m2 intravenously (IV) on days 111111111and1111 in combination with carboplatin 5 AUC IV 
on days and wand radiation 5 Gy on day eto 111, for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. On 
30Apr08, the patient completed therapy with pemetrexed and carboplatin and on12May08 completed radiation 
therapy. On 21May08, the patient began consolidation therapy with pemetrexed, 500mg/m2 IV, on day 1 every. 
days. The patient completed study therapy on 02Jul08. Prior to the event carboplatin was last received on 
30Apr08, radiation on 12May08 and pemetrexed was last received on 02Jul08. On 01Aug08, three months after 
last receiving carboplatin, two months and two weeks after last receiving radiation and 31 days after last receiving 
pemetrexed the patient presented for her 30 day post treatment summary visit with shortness of breath, cough and 
dyspnea. On 01Aug08, a chest and abdominal CT scan showed pleural-based density in the anterior aspect of the 
left upper hemithorax appears stable; a small left pleural effusion had developed and there were new patchy 
interstitial densities in both lobes and in a small portion of the left lower lobe; no evidence of active malignancy in 
the abdomen or acute intra-abdominal abnormality. The patient was diagnosed with radiation pneumonitis and 
dyspnea (other reason serious). A PET scan on 08Aug08 indicated findings consistent with diffuse air space 
hypermetabolic activity within the right upper lobe, middle lobe and left upper lobe; these findings were consistent 
with neoplastic disease and etiology, such as bronchoalveolar carcinoma until proven otherwise; no further focal 
regions of hypermetabolic activity were identified; diffuse activity through out the spine possibly secondary to 
radiation and/or chemotherapy. The patient was scheduled for a repeat CT scan in 30 days. On 15A,kug08, the 
patient was started on a prednisone slow dose taper and amoxicillin sodium/ clavulanate potassium 875mg twice 
daily for 15 days. The patient had not recovered from the radiation pneumonitis, and it was unknown whether she 
had recovered from the dyspnea. The patient had completed this study prior to the events. In the opinion of the 
study investigator, the radiation pneumonitis not related to carboplatin and protocol procedures, but was related to 
pemetrexed. The investigator felt the dyspnea was related to pemetrexed, radiation and protocol procedures, but 
not related to carboplatin. It was further provided that pemetrexed and radiation induced the pneumonitis, 
pulmonary infiltrates and dyspnea symptom. Update 26Aug08: Additional information received on 21Aug08 from 
study investigator. Added event of dyspnea. Updated event of pneumonitis/pulmonary infiltrates to radiation 
pneumonitis. Updated event outcome. Updated narrative appropriately. Update 02Sep08: Additional information 
received on 28Aug08 from study investigator. Deleted event of dyspnea. Updated protocol procedures to no. 
Updated narrative appropriately. Update 13Jan12: Additional information received on 13Jan12 from the study 
investigator. The event of dyspnea was added. The causality statement was updated to include dyspnea. 
Listedness was reassessed. The relevant fields and narrative were updated accordingly. 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 650 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information