This case is being reported as an internal Quality review process which has identified unreported !CSR's from a 
patient reimbursement service program Initial information for this Spontaneous case, AER number 1033301, was 
received on 09/May/2007 from a consumer and concerns a Female patient (age not reported) who was treated with 
ERLOTINIB HYDROCHLORIDE and BEVACIZUMAB for unknown indication. No medical history was reported. 
No concurrent illnesses were reported. No concomitant medications were reported. On an unspecified date, the 
patient started ERLOTINIB HYDROCHLORIDE and BEVACIZUMAB (route, dose, form, frequency: not reported). 
On an unspecified date the PATIENT EXPIRED. There was insufficient information regarding the therapy ongoing 
status of ERLOTINIB HYDROCHLORIDE and BEVACIZUMAB at the time of death. The reporter did not provide 
causal relationship for the event PATIENT EXPIRED with ERLOTINIB HYDROCHLORIDE and BEVACIZUMAB. 
No further information was provided. Additional information was received on 27/Feb/2012. On an unspecified date, 
the patient developed progression of disease, malignant pleural effusions, severe dyspnea, increased weakness, 
decrease per oral intake, nausea and fatigue. It was reported that the patient was currently on oxygen therapy 2Ltr 
oxygen with mall nant leural effusions. On the patient was discharged from the hospital for comfort 
measures. On the patient passe away. e reporter did not provide causality for progression of 
disease, malignan p eural effusions, severe dyspnea, increased weakness, decrease per oral intake, nausea and 
fatigue with erlotinib hydrochloride. No further information was available. Additional information was received on 
27/Feb/2012 from a nurse. Concomitant medications included Morphine sulfate, Escitalopram oxalate, Tussinex, 
Lorazepam, Folic acid. On 15/Feb/2007, the patient started therapy with intravenous pemetrexed disodium at dose 
of 825 mg every 3 weeks and intravenous Bevacizumab at a dose of 1050 mg every 3 weeks. On 20/Feb/2007, 
therapy with Bevacizumab was discontinued. On an unspecified date in Mar/2007, therapy with oral Erlotinib 
hydrohcloride at a dose of 150 mg daily was started. On 19/Apr/2007, treatment with pemetrexed disodium was 
stopped. On 26/Apr/2007, the patient developed Dyspnea. On an unknown date in May/2007, therapy with 
Erlotinib hydrochloride was discontinued. The events Dyspnea and Malignant pleural effusion were persisting at 
time of death. The reporter assessed the events Dyspnea and Malignant pleural effusion as medically significant 
and as unrelated to Erlotinib hydrohcloride, Bevacizumab and Pemetrexed disodium. No further information was 
provided.