This U.S. serious post-marketing surveillance report from a physician, received via the Hunter Outcome Survey 
(HOS), describes the occurrence of respiratory failure, bronchopneumonia and urine output decreased in a 10-
year-old Caucasian male patient administered Elaprase (idursulfase) for Hunters disease (Mucopolysaccharidosis 
II). 
The patient had a past and concurrent medical history significant for constipation, anxiety, nervous system disorder, 
seizure, salivary hypersecretion, osteopenia, urethral repair, urogenital fistula repair, enteral nutrition and 
neurological decompensation, The patient had no known drug allergies. 
The patient was taking lorazepam, Keppra (levetiracetam), Diastat (diazepam), diphenhydramine and Robinul 
(glycopyrronium bromide) concomitantly. 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 1 of  - 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report information 
The patient commenced treatment with idursulfase, 0.5 mg/kg concentrate for solution for intravenous infusion 
uoncne ai wmeek,i o n 08-NOV-2006. On 21-DED-2011, the patient was administered his last infusion of idursulfase. On the patient was admitted to the hospital as a result of end stage Hunter's disease for comfort 
measures only due to progressive decline in respiratory status, noted to be bronchopneumonia. The patient was g-
tube dependent and nonverbal as baseline assessment. As treatment, the patient was administered morphine 
bolus, every four hours as needed, lidocaine patch, oxygen 6 L via nasal cannula and Albuterol (salbutamol) for 
comfort measures. Morphine was progressed to IV drip. On urine output was significantly decreased. 
Oni11111111. BUN revel was 3 mg/dL (normal range 5-20) and creatine was 0.34 mg/dL (normal range 0.6- 
1.5). There was no treatment given for this event. On G-tube feedings were discontin 
allthe patient's respiratory status worsened and the pa lent experienced labored breathing. On 
the patient passed away due to respiratory failure. Broncopneumonia and decreased urinary output remained 
ongoing at the time of death. Pathology on autopsy showed bronchopneumonia bilateral upper and lower lobe. 
Lung biopsy on autopsy revealed modular pseudomonas aeruginosa and modular Corynebacterium. Due to the 
events, idursulfase was not continuing at the time of death. 
The reporter assessed causality of the events to be severe in intensity and unrelated to idursulfase therapy. 
Shire considered this case serious due to the event of respiratory failure (fatal, life-threatening, hospitalization) and 
bronchopneumonia and urinary output decreased (medically significant, hospitalization). 
Additional adverse events were captured for this patient while taking Elaprase. Please refer to Argus case numbers 
ALL1-2011-04591 (respiratory distress), ALL1-2011-04592 (aspiration pneumonia) and ALL1-2011-04593 
(Epistaxis). 
Additional information was received on 23-FEB-2012. The report type was changed to PMS as the patient was 
enrolled in the HOS program and the patient identifidation number was added. The patient's date of birth and 
relevant history was added, suspected product start date and dosing information was updated and concomitant 
medications were provided. The narrative was updated to reflect the additional information. 
Additional information was received on 06-MAR-2012, The event term was updated to respiratory failure, which was 
the cause of the patient's death. The action taken with Elaprase (changed to not applicable), the patient death 
details and the narrative were updated to reflect the additional information provided. 
Additional information was received on 20-MAR-2012. The reporter demographics were updated and patient 
relevant history and laboratory data was added. Two additional events of urine output decreased and 
bronchopneumonia were added as events. The suspect product tab was updated with dosage, concomitant 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page  2 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FDA Case Report Information 
medication and treatment medications were updated. The narrative was amended to reflect the additional 
information provided. 
Additional information received on 08-JUN-2012. No new safety data was provided. 
Follow-up was received on 31-JUL-2013. For the event of bronchopneumonia, the onset date was changed, 
treatment was changed to yes, severity was added, causality was changed to not related, and the outcome was 
changed to not recovered. For the event of urine output decreased, treatment was changed to no, severity was 
added, the outcome was changed to not recovered, and the causality was changed to not related. The narrative 
was updated to reflect the additional information provided. 
Company Comment: 
The Company Pharmacovigilance physician assessed the reported events as not related to Elaprase and related to 
the progression of the underlying Hunter's syndrome. Respiratory disease and complications leading to death are 
commonly reported in Hunter disease as evident in the autopsy findings for this patient. The decreased urine 
output was related to end stage disease and respiratory failure. This case does not change the risk benefit profile 
of Elaprase.