This report was received by Roche on 27FEB2012. The report was received at Astellas from Roche on 
06MAR2012. This case is being reported as an internal Quality review process which has identified unreported 
ICSRs from a patient reimbursement service program. Initial information for this Spontaneous case, AER number 
1033301, was received on 09/May/2007 from a consumer and concerns a Female patient (age not reported) who 
was treated with ERLOTINIB HYDROCHLORIDE and BEVACIZUMAB for unknown indication. No medical history 
was reported. No concurrent illnesses were reported. No concomitant medications were reported. On an 
unspecified date, the patient started ERLOTINIB HYDROCHLORIDE and BEVACIZUMAB (route, dose, form, 
frequency: not reported). On an unspecified date the PATIENT EXPIRED. There was insufficient information 
regarding the therapy ongoing status of ERLOTINIB HYDROCHLORIDE and BEVACIZUMAB at the time of death. 
The reporter did not provide causal relationship for the event PATIENT EXPIRED with ERLOTINIB 
HYDROCHLORIDE and BEVACIZUMAB. No further information was provided.  - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Additional 
information was received on 27/Feb/2012. On an unspecified date, the patient developed progression of disease, 
malignant pleural effusions, severe dyspnea, increased weakness, decrease per oral intake, nausea and fatigue. It 
was re orted that the patient was currently on oxygen therapy 2Ltr oxygen with malignant leural effusions. On 
the patient was discharged from the hospital for comfort measures. On , the patient 
passed away. The reporter did not provide causality for progression of disease, malignant pleural effusions, severe 
dyspnea, increased weakness, decrease per oral intake, nausea, fatigue and hospitalization with erlotinib 
hydrochloride. The Astellas medical reviewer assessed malignant pleural effusions as medically significant and 
progression of disease, increased weakness, decrease per oral intake, nausea and fatigue as non-serious. No 
further information was available.  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Additional information was received on 27/Feb/2012 from a 
nurse. Concomitant medications included Morphine sulfate, Escitalopram oxalate, Tussinex, Lorazepam, Folic 
acid. On 15/Feb/2007, the patient started therapy with intravenous pemetrexed disodium at dose of 825 mg every 3 
weeks and intravenous Bevacizumab at a dose of 1050 mg every 3 weeks. On 20/Feb/2007, therapy with 
Bevacizumab was discontinued. On an unspecified date in Mar/2007, therapy with oral Erlotinib hydrochloride at a 
dose of 150 mg daily was started. On 19/Apr/2007, treatment with pemetrexed disodium was stopped. On 
the patient developed Dyspnea. On an unknown date in May/2007, therapy with Erlotinib 
hydroc ori e was discontinued. The events Dyspnea and Malignant pleural effusion were persisting at time of 
death. The reporter assessed the events Dyspnea and Malignant pleural effusion as medically significant and as 
unrelated to Erlotinib hydrochloride, Bevacizumab and Pemetrexed disodium. No further information was provided. 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 551 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information