Initial Information for this Clinical Study case, AER number 1031230, was received on 16/Jan/2012 from a 
an and s a 69 Years old Male  tient enrolled in Study 
No relevant medical history was 
reported. Concurrent dons inc ad metasta is bronchial carcinoma. No concomitant medications were 
re.. . On01/Nov/2011, the patient started Intravenous (not otherwise specified) BEVACIZUMAB 660 mg total 
daily dose (form and frequency not provided), Intravenous (not otherwise specified) PEMETREXED DISODIUM 
976 mg total daily dose (form and frequency not provided) and Intravenous (not otherwise specified) CISPLATIN, 
140 mg daily dose (form and frequency not provided). On 16/JAN/2012, the patient developed abdominal pain 
(grade2-3), nausea (grade2-3) and vomiting (grade2-3). The outcome of the events abdominal pain, nausea and 
vomiting were not reported. Therapy with Bevacizumab, Pemetrexed disodium and Cisplatin were ongoing. The 
assessed the hIpain, nausea and vomiting as unlikely related to Bevacizumab, Pemetrexed 
and Cisplatin. No further information was provided. Additional information was received on 09/Feb/2012. 
C tent medication   ed Fentanyl Citrate, Domperidone, Pantoprazole Sodium and Enoxaparin Sodium. 
The abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting were associated with pancytopenia. He received treatment with 
Prednisolone 50 mg per day for three days along with TC transfusion cocci and EC transfusion twice. The therapy 
with Bevacizumab and Pemetrexed was delayed one week and the therapy with Cisplatin was stopped due to 
abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting. On 03/Feb/2012, the abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting resolved. A CT 
scan one week f. .  g the event showed stable disease. Further information has been requested. Additional 
information was received on 23/Feb/2012. On 07 February 2012, the patient received the last dose of 
bevadzumab and pemetrexed sodium. On the patient developed pneumonia grade 2 and 
febrile neutropenia grade 3. The patient was hsopitalised , for both the events. Therapy with Bevacizumab, 
Pemetrexed di 0. and Cisplatin were ongoing. On an unspecified date, the embolic of the lung was treated. 
The outcome of the events of pneumonia and febrile neutropenia was not reported. The reporter assessed the 
pne grade 2 and febrile neutmpenia as unlikely related to Bevacizumab and Cisplatin and probably related 
to Pemetrexed die No further information was provided. Additional information received on 05/Mar/2012. 
The investigator confirmed that pancytopenia was not a serious adverse event. Additional information was received 
on 13 Mar 2012. Additional concomitant medications included folic acid, allopurinol and methylphenidate 
ho o tondo. Onallinin the events of pneumonia and neutropenia resolved. Therapy with bevacizumab, 
... tin and cisplatin was permanently discontinued.