T Sqatr initiated clinical trial 
, reported by a healthcare professional, concerns a 54-year-old 
Caucasian female. Medical History: PleurFffusion, and Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Concomitant 
medications were not reported. The patient received supplementation with folic acid or cyanocobaiamin. On 17-
Feb-2011, the patient first received pemetrexed (500 mg/m2) intravenously (IV), every 3 weeks and erlotinib (100 
mg) orally, daily on days 2-17 cycle for the treatment of NSCLC. On 15-Sep-2011, the patient received her last 
dose of pemetrexed (cycle 1 prior to the onset of the event. The last dose of ertotinib prior to the event was not 
ays since receiving the first doses of study drugs, andelays since the last dose 
of pemetrexed, ent presented to the emergency room with a chief complaint of fever, severe dyspnea on 
exertion, and non-s 0.0  o  ive for several days. She had been prescribed azithromycin for presumed 
pneumonia two days prior. The patient also reported subjective fevers, anorexia, decreased oral intake, and 
fatigue. Physical examination and laboratory tests revealed tachycardia, mild hypotension, and hypokaiemia. The 
investigator considered the anorexia, fatigue, tachycardia, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (previously reported as 
00 sierras) to be symptoms and not SAEs. The patient was also found to have a normal absolute neutrophil 
count on a . On a computerized tomogram (CT) chest scan showed ground-glass opacities 
and on malignant pleural effusion grew coagulase negative staphylococcus, thought to be a 
contaminant negative with subsequent culture. Differential diagnoses included pneumonia, lung toxicity to 
erlotinib or more likely cancer metastasis. The patient received azithromycin, cefepime, and vancomycin with initial 
clinical improvement, Pulmonary consult was concerned that the CT findings could be due to erlotinib-induced 
, and the patient received 7 days of prednisone. However, the patients respiratory symptoms worsened 
wiffist . A di tic , opy was not deemed safe by pulmonology consult given the concern the 
patient might become dependent oftaitentilator due to severe lung disease. Pleural fluid analysis supported the 
diagnosis of acute infection. On a chest x-ray showed worsening bilateral airspace disease likely due 
to metastatic cancer. On 29-Sep-2011, erlotinib was discontinued. The patient had no documented fever in the 
hospital. Although the diagnosis of tarceva-induced pneumonitis was possible, the opinion of the treating physician 
was that these events were most likely due to lung tumor progression with acute infection with pneumonia and 
septic 01 0,  et. onall1111., the patient was discharged to home hospice with oxygen. Discharge diagnoses 
included sepsis, metastatic lung adenocarcinoma, and bilateral pleural effusions. As per investigator follow up (23-
Feb-2012), the events being reported were severe dyspnea, pneumonia, sepsis, and bilateral effusions. On 30-
Sep-2011, the patient was discontinued from the study due to decreased performance status and likely disease 
ssion in the lungs and lower extremity (bone metastases). Disease progression was not reported as an SAE. 
On 05-0d-2011, Me patient recovered from the 0 onia and sepsis. The investigator reported that bilateral 
pleural effusions and severe dyspnea resolved on 1111.111.11. On the same day, the patient expired at home 
while on hospice care. Cause of death was reported as unknown. it was unknown if an autopsy was performed and 
a death certificate was not provided. In the opinion of the investigator, pneumonia, sepsis, and death were unlikely 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there Is no data for that field Page 194  of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
related to both pemetrexed and erlotinib. The severe dyspnea and bilateral effusions were possibly related to 
pemetrexed and ertotinib. Relatedness of all events to protocol procedures was notprovided. Update 10-Nov-
2011: Additional information received on 08-Nov-2011 from another manufacture. Events; expired, erlotinib 100 mg 
daily for NSCLC (Incorrect dose administered), erlotinib days 2-17 (Inappropriate schedule of drug administration), 
pneumonitis, malignant pleural effusion, presumed pneumonia, hypokalemia, likely disease progression in the 
lungs, and disease o a ssion lower extremity/bone metastasis added. Amended event from bilateral pleural 
effusions to malignant pleural effusion Corresponding fields and.narrative updated. Update 24-Feb-2012: 
Additional information received on 23-Feb-2012 from the study investigator: Added event term severe dyspnea. 
Clarified event terms being reported. Reported supplementation with folic acid and cyanocobalamin. Provided 
additional event details, and causality assessment for events being reported. Updated fields and narrative 
accordingly. Update 28-Mar-2012: Additional information received on 27-Mar-2012 from the study investigator: 
Deleted previously reported events: erlotinib 100 mg daily for NSCLC (Incorrect dose administered), erlotinib days 
2-17 ( ,,o0 00 ; to schedule of drug administration), pneumonitis, hypokalemia, likely disease progression in the 
lungs, and disease progression lower extremity bone metastasis, as investigataor reported there were no 
ina a  a a riat ect dosages of study drugs and confirmed pneumonitis, hypokalemia, and disease progression 
were not o re o a as SAEs. Provided medical history, date patient was removed from protocol, event 
outcomes and dates. Updated fields and narrative accordingly.