This literature case, reported by a physician with additional information received from the physician, concerns a 64 
year old male patient (ethnicity not reported). Medical History: not reported but patient had no pre-existing history 
of interstitial lung disease, autoimmune disorders, or any environmental exposures histories. Concomitant 
Medications: carboplatin, cyanocobalamin, folic acid, steroids. Historical treatment: carboplatin, etoposide and local 
radiotherapy up to 50Gy. The patient received gemcitabine (Gemzar) with carboplatin two cycles, for the treatment 
of adenocarcinoma of the lung (cT2b, cN3, Cm0, stage IIIB), beginning in approximately Jun2008 (dosages not 
reported). Restaging after treatment with gemcitabine and carboplatin showed progression of a mediastinal lymph 
node and new pulmonary metastases. Gemcitabine and carboplatin were discontinued. On an unspecified date, 
reported as two and a half months after termination of gemcitabine treatment, the patient was started on second 
line pemetrexed (Alimta) 500 mg/m2 every three weeks, for the treatment of adenocarcinoma. One week after the 
second administration of pemetrexed, the patient developed severe dyspnea on mild exertion. A computerized 
tomography (CT) scan showed new ground-glass opacities in the left inferior and left lateral pulmonary lobe. The 
primary differential diagnosis of radiation pneumonitis or bronchopulmonary infection was made. The patient 
underwent pulmonary function tests which revealed a severe limitation in diffusion capacity of 32 percent of 
predicted. Sputum, laboratory (not specified) and clinical examination showed no signs for infectious cause (values 
not reported). He was treated with a course of a beta lactam antibiotic (not specified) for one week for possible 
bacterial super infection and high dose corticosteroids were started with significant improvement in the patients 
symptoms. Pemetrexed was continued for another cycle and five days later his pulmonary condition worsened 
again and he was admitted to the hospital. A CT scan showed worsening of the interstitial infiltrates. No 
neutropenia was noted. A few days later the patient died due to respiratory failure. An autopsy was not performed. 
The outcome of the events: recall pneumonitis (fatal), acute pulmonary toxicity/interstitial pneumonitis (fatal), 
respiratory failure (fatal), disease progression (not recovered) and possible bacterial super infection (unknown). 
The physician stated that disease progression was related to gemcitabine and the events of respiratory failure, 
pulmonary toxicity and radiation pneumonitis were related to pemetrexed. No opinion of relatedness were provided 
regarding possible bacterial super infection. Literature Citation: Hochstrasser A, Benz G, Joerger M , Templeton A, 
Brutsche M, Fruh MI. Interstitial Pneumonitis after Treatment with Pemetrexed: A Rare Event?. Chemotherapy. 
2012; 58: 84-88. 2012; 58 84-88. Update 19-Apr-2012: Additional information received from the initial reporter on 
16-Apr-2012. Added a serious event of possible bacterial superinfection, updated medical history and relatedness 
statement. Fields and narrative were updated. Edit 20-Apr-2012: Upon internal review by physician, updated 
relatedness for event of bacterial super infection for gemcitabine.