This spon  - 0 s case, reported by an oncologist via a sales representative, concerns a 60 year old female patient 
of unknown 3'3 , .1 history included CVL (unknown abbreviation), type II diabetes, and hypertension. 
Surgical; -  . was performed in 2005 (due to tumour of the rectum), and then she was operated because of 
of king and .  ,0 adjuvant chemotherapy for a year. Concomitant medications included folic acid, 
cy .  o to  , 0,, ,  Min, 0  es. 0 ..,, piracetam, perindopril erbumine, metoclopramide hydrochloride, pentoxifylline and 
a i0 , 0 . polymaltose complex, all for unknown indications. The patient received pemetrexed disodium 
(Albite) 100maintravenously as a 0 , o , ,rapy, for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) stage IV, 
' on 21-Mar-2042 (regimen unknown). She received her first dose of pemetrexed on 21-Mar-2012. Onalb 
days after . . ,, pemetrexed treatment the patient died. The direct cause of death was reported 
as extended malignant disease (carcinosis and metastasis of lung) and respiratory failure. It was reported that the 
progress of NSCLC led to the death of the patient. An autopsy was performed which provided the basis for the 
Print 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 776 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
direct cause of death. It was not reported if treatment with, pemetrexed was continued at time of death. The 
physician offered the opinion that the events were not related to pernetrexed treatment. Update 04-May- 
.; Adational information received from the physician on 01-May-2012. Changed event of died to extended 
disease with serious criteria of death, added serious event ofr respiratory failure with serious criteria of 
*ad causality with regards to new events. Added medicaUhistory and concomitant medications. 
o fields and updated narrative with new information. Update 17-May-2012: Additional information received 
from the physician on 15-May-2012. Updated field and narrative to indicate an autopsy was performed.