This clini 
-year-old ack female patient. The patient had no relevant medical history. Concomitant Medication(s): 
cyanocobalamin, folic acid, salbutamol sulfate, dexpanthenol, nutrients nos, fluticasone propionate/salmeterol 
xinafoate, macrogol. On 30-JAN-2012, the patient received the first doses of intravenous pemetrexed 
(500mg/m2), cetuximab (400mg/m2) and carboplatin (AUC 5) for treatment of head and neck cancer. Prior to the 
event, the patient last received pemetrexed and carboplatin on 20-FEB-2012 and cetuximab on 05-MAR-2012. On 
05-MAR-2012, the patient experienced a decreased neutrophil count and absolute neutro hil count (ANC) was 0.37 
x 10E9/L (1.60-8.00). White blood cell count was 1.62 x 10E9/L (4.00-11.00). On the site received a 
call that the patient was at the emergency room (ER). The patient had shortness o rea an pain when 
breathing. Vital signs on arrival were: Blood pressure 124/80, heart rate 120, body temperature 39.4 celsius (C) and 
respirations 18. The patient was treated with vancomycin, aztreonam, paracetamol, ondansetron hydrochloride, 
morphine, sodium chloride infusion. At 14:00, body temperature was 37.8, heart rate 94, respirations 20 and blood 
pressure 86/50. On the same day, 37 days since the start of study drugs, 16 days since the last dose of 
pemetrexed and carboplatin and 2 days since the last dose of cetuximab, the patient awaited a computerized 
tomogram (CT) of maxillofacial, neck and chest and for hospital admission for grade 4 decrease absolute 
neutrophil count (ANC). The patient was also admitted with acute onset of grade 3 chest pain and grade 2 
shortness of breath to rule out acute coronary syndrome. The patient had tingling of the left side of the body (grade 
2 questionable left sided muscle weakness) and fever of 103 degrees Fahrenheit (F). The patient had profuse 
diarrhea, Clostridium difficile (C. diff) was ruled out and stool study was negative. Hemoglobin (Hgb) was 8.8, 
hematocrit (Hct) 25.5, WBC 2.8, ANC 1200, platelet count (Pits) 19,000 x 10E9/L (range 150-450). Lung function 
tests (LFTs) were within normal range and Troponins x1 was negative. Computerized tomogram angiogram (CTA) 
ruled out pulmonary emboli, showed bilateral new onset pulmonary nodules, possible early metastases and no 
thoracic adneopathy. CT of the neck no longer identified the mass in the right deep cervical region and stranding in 
Print Time; 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 71 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
the subcutaneous fat that likely reflected interval radiation therapy was noted. CT of the head showed no convincing 
features of intracranial metastases. Magnetic resonance image (MRI) of brain showed no significant or acute 
intracranial abnormality and no evidence of intracranial metastatic disease. The source of the infection was 
possibly from the stranding and the soft tissue infection present in the left side of the neck or the source could have 
been from oral cavity in the background of neutropenia. On , the patients chest discomfort was 
determined to be more localized and sharp, and was probably pleuritic, percardial or just musculoskeletal and was 
recovered. Neurological symptoms (left sided muscle weakness) resolved. The patients ANC was not low enough 
to be determined neutopenic fever. The patients fever improved and she remained afebrile. Broad spectrum 
antibiotics vancomycin and aztreonam were received for a 3 day total until infectious disease (ID) saw the patient 
discontinued them and switched the patient to intravenous clindamycin. An ears, nose and throat consult (ENT) 
was obtained to look into neck pathology. Indirect laryngoscopy revealed some mucositis of the oral mucosa and 
ruled out active infection in the pharynx and larynx. The patient had radiation induced mucositis and dysphagia. The 
patient was pancytopenic; etiology probably from chemotherapy induced bone marrow suppression. Hgb fell to 5.1 
x 10E12/L (12.00-6.0) and she had to be transfused with about 3 units packed red blood cells, which increased 
hemogtobin to 10.8. Plts went down to 13 and the patient was transfused one unit of super pack platelets. On4111 
-the soft tissue infection was recovered. Hemoglobin was 11.8. WBC count was low at 2.8, although 
ANC was more than 1000, pits were 102. The patient had a transthoracic echocardiogram with the following 
conclusion: very poor acoustic windows; small circumferential pericardial effusion, the effusion was more prominent 
near the right ventricle, the 2D echocardiographic finding did not suggest a hemodynamically significant percardial 
effusion; a small left ventricular (LV) cavity; moderate concentric left ventricular hypertrophy; poor endocardial 
definition prevented accurate estimation of left ventricular ejection fraction and exclusion of segmental wall motion 
abnormalities, from the images available the LVEF appeared mildly reduced; right ventricle was not well visulaized; 
reduced right ventricular global systolic function; no mitral regurgitation; no aortic stenosis, no significant aortic 
regurgitation visualized. (Additional information in medical records). On the same day, grade 2 shortness of breath 
was recovered and the patient was discharged from the hospital. The patient was discharged on 5 additional days 
of intravenous clindamycin. Study drugs were held. On 19-MAR-2012, the patient was recovered from grade 3 
anemia, grade 4 decreased platelets and grade 4 decreased ANC (event terms confirmed by the investigator). Per 
the investigator, mucositis, dysphagia and diarrhea were adverse events (AEs). The study drugs were resumed on 
26-MAR-2012. Pemetrexed dose was changed to 375mg/m2 and carboplatin was changed to 3.75 AUC. No 
change was made to the dose of cetuximab. Additional information has been requested. In the opinion of the 
investigator, grade 3 decreased ANC, grade 4 decreased platelet count and grade 3 anemia, were related to the 
pemetrexed and carboplatin and unrelated to cetumimab. The grade 3 chest pain, grade 2 shortness of breath, 
grade 2 left sided muscle weakness and grade 2 soft tissue infection were unrelated to pemetrexed, cetuximab and 
carboplatin. All of the events were unrelated to protocol procedures. In the opinion of the investigator, the chest 
pain and shortness of breath, were related to the anemia as a result of chemotherapy. The left sided muscle 
weakness was not related to the study. The anemia, decreased platelets and decreased ANC are as a result of the 
Print lime: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 72 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
chemotherapy. The soft tissue infection is due to a decreased ANC as a result of chemotherapy. Update 30-MAR-
2012: Additional information has been received from the investigator on 29-MAR-2012. Amended event of 
neutrophil count decreased to decreased ANC, added events of chest pain, shortness of breath, left sided muscle 
weakness, anemia, decreased platelets, and soft tissue infection; added event outcomes; added date study drug 
held, resumption date and dose change; added medical history; added laboratory/diagnostic test results; added 
treatment medication; added event details from medical records; updated causality statement and narrative 
accordingly. Update 06-APR-2012: Additional information received from the investigator on 05-APR-2012. 
Causality changed for the events shortness of breath, chest pain and soft tissue infection from related to 
pemetrexed and carboplatin to not related; added CTC grade for soft tissue infection; confirmed event terms of 
decreased ANC, decreased pits and anemia; confirmed AEs; added results of echocardiogram; updated narrative 
accordingly.