Seriousness criteria: Important Medical Event. This case was derived from a scientific literature. The article 
describes a case of fatal interstitial lung disease associated with high erlotinib and its metabolite levels. The 
literature review describes 19 patients who developed erlotinib-associated interstitial lung disease (ILD). Of the 19 
patients 14 patients had received BMS drugs either with erlotinib or before erlotinib therapy. This file represents 
patient 4 of 15. A 60-year-old Asian male patient with underlying history of Non-small cell lung cancer developed 
interstitial lung disease (ILD) after receiving therapy with cisplatin, docetaxel, gemcitabine, pemetrexed disodium 
and erlotinib. Prior to erlotinib therapy, the patient received docetaxel and cisplatin followed by gemcitabine and 
followed by pemetrexed disodium. Nine days after the initiation of erlotinib, the patient was diagnosed with ILD. 
Computerized tomography (CT) revealed extensive bilateral ground glass infiltrates. The patient was rechallenged 
with erlotinib and 24 days fever, dyspnea and dry cough. After re-challenge C-reactive protein (CRP) was 15 mg/L, 
and white blood cell count was 8100 cells/L (91% neutrophils). CT revealed recurrent scattered ground glass 
infiltrates. Erlotinib was discontinued and the patient was treated with corticosteroids. The patient did not have any 
co-morbidity. He did not received and co-medication or any recent radiotherapy. The patient had a history smoking. 
Author comment: ILD is a rare and often fatal adverse reaction associated with erlotinib treatment. Although this 
class of agents is considered to be relatively safe, the most serious, but rare, adverse reaction is drug-associated 
interstitial lung disease (ILD). Most likely, the cause for erlotinib-associated ILD is multifactorial. EGFR inhibitors 
may interfere with both the damage and repair pathways of pulmonary tissue. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) is 
secreted into bronchial surface fluid. EGFR inhibition by erlotinib may thus impair EGF-induced repair by 
pneumocytes. Furthermore, it has been postulated that as a result of their metabolism EGFR inhibitors are bio 
activated to reactive intermediates that can bind to cysteine groups of proteins as a possible cause pulmonary and 
hepatic toxicity. The major reactive intermediate of erlotinib is mainly formed by CYP1A and that adduct-formation 
was 12-fold higher in human pulmonary microsomes from smokers than from non-smokers, consistent with clinical 
toxicology data that smoking induces CYP1Aand that smoking is a risk factor for development of erlotinib -
associated ILD. As a result its metabolism, a reactive epoxide is formed that can also form protein adducts. Both 
CYP1A and CYP3A contribute to the formation of this reactive erlotinib intermediate. Modulation of the metabolic 
pathway of erlotinib may, therefore, influence its toxicity. Literary citation: Ter Heine R, Van Den Bosch RTA, 
Schaefer Prokop CM, Lankheet NAG, Beijnen JH, Staaks GHA, et al. Fatal interstitial lung disease associated with 
high erlotinib and metabolite levels. A case report and a review of the literature. Lung Cancer 2012 Mar 
1;75(3):391-7. Park SD, Kim A, Park JS, Shin CH, Nam HS, Kim L, et al. Recurrent erlotinib induced interstitial 
lung disease on non small cell lung cancer. Tuber Respir Dis. 2005;67(5):445-8.