Case number PHEH2012US016027Is an initial spontaneous legal case received from a physician on 09 Aug 2012 
and follow up information received on 01 Jul 2013 from a physician via a consumer's attorney inclusive of medical 
records. This report refers to a 09 years old female child patient. Patient's historical conditions and concomitant 
medicaments were updated. The patient's current condition included heterotopia of gray matter from birth. The 
patient's family history included cancer (paternal grandmother). The patient underwent semi-elective intubation and 
placement of Foley catheter. Patient had received Trileptal (oxcarbazepine) for the treatment of tonic-clonic seizure 
on 17 Nov 2010 at a dose of 150 mg every morning and 300 mg every evening. After starting the suspect drug 
patient suffered from erythema with petichiae on 30 Nov 2010, Stevens-Johnson syndrome on 01 Dec 2010, 
dermatitis, painful rash started on her face and arm, macula papular rash on cheeks and arm, erosion of lip, facial 
swelling, erosion on her palate, facial bulla, lesion on her back, trunk and upper arm and face. Record dated 02 
Dec 2010 noted that patient was also suffering from mild elevated liver function test, tranaminitis, throat pain, 
ulceration of oral mucosa, whitish discharge from eyes and vagina, difficulty in swallowing, cough, fever, lesion on 
vagina, 'periorbital swelling, rhinitis, eye pain and respiratory distress. Record dated 03 Mar 2011 noted that patient 
was suffering from alopecia. Record dated 17 Nov 2011 noted that patient was suffering from burning on urination. 
Record dated 28 Jun 2013 stated that patient had bullous lesions at chest, abdomen, face, chest, neck and 
extremities, painful lesion in mouth, conjunctival injection with pain, substantial mucosal injury, pigmentation 
abnormalities, illness and exfoliation of skin to perineum. Treatment with Trileptal was discontinued on an 
unspecified date. Physician reported causality for event Stevens-Johnson syndrome was related to Trileptal therapy 
and not provided for rest of the events. Physician did not provide seriousness of the events. The outcome of the 
event for Steven-Johnson syndrome was recovered. Outcome of other events was not reported. 
Follow up received on 01 Jul 2013, from a physician via a consumer's attorney inclusive of medical records: Patient 
underwent (semi-elective intubation and placement of Foley catheter.), events (bullous lesions at chest, abdomen, 
face, chest, neck and extremities, painful lesion in mouth, conjuctival injection with pain, substantial mucosal injury, 
pigmentation abnormalities, illness and exfoliation of skin to perineum) were updated.