This. Clinical,  Trial 
y a tudy Investigator, concerns a 74 Year old auca a e patient. 
Medical. History: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Hypertension, Hyperlipidaemia, Pulmonary fibrosis, 
Myocardial infarction, Tobacco user, Alcohol use. Concomitant Medication(s): folic acid, cyanocobalamin, 
promethazine, oxycodone, dexamethasone, fentanyl, omeprazole, rosuvastatin calcium, zoledronic acid, oxygen, 
ipratropium bromide, salbutamol sulfate, trazodone, levosalbutamol tartrate. 
On 09-Dec-2011, the patient first received pem
combination with carboplatin (6 AUC) IV every.etrexed (500 mg/m2) intravenously (IV) every.day s in day s for the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer of 
nonsquamous histology. The induction phase for both study drugs was completed on 15-Feb-2012. The 
maintenance phase began on 07-Mar-2012 in which the patient received pemetrexed (500 mg/m2) IV day 1 every 
Odays. On 27-Aug-2012, the patient presented to the office with severe shortness of breath (SOB). At that time, 
he was not on oxygen. Upon examination, pulmonary congestion and infiltrates were auscultated. In addition, he 
complained of coughing up mucus (yellow/green). His weight was reported at 93 Ibs, pulse 90, respirations of 22, 
blood pressure 121/60 mmHg and temperature of 95.8. Laboratory data included a hemoglobin of 7.9. The patient 
was encouraged to undergo a blood transfusion with packed red blood cells (PRBCs), however he refused. He 
stated he would look at his calander at home. He was sent home on levofloxacin, nebulizer treatments three times 
a day (TID), continuous oxygen therapy and dextromethorphan hy
ays since the first dose of both study drugs, aldays drobromide, ethanol, guaifenesin. On since the last dose of carboplatin an ays 
since tie dose of pemetrexed, the patient was hospififized due to respiratory failure related to dyspnea and 
decreased hemoglobin (grade 3). On laboratory data included a Hgb of 7.4 g/dL (reference range: 
13,5 to 17.5), hematocrit (Hct) of 23 percen reference range: 41 to 53), prothrombin time (PT) of 14.4, 
international normalized ratio (INR) of 1.2, albumin of 2.8 g/dL (reference range: 3.4 to 5.0) and a platelet count of 
129,000 x10E9/L (reference range: 150,000 to 400,000) additional laboratory data in source documents. In 
addition, a chest x-ray (CXR) revealed no acute changes. In addition to antibiotic therapy, treatment measures 
included ipratr   nebulizer treatments and IV morphine sulfate. He was transfused with one unit of packed red 
cells (PRBCS) and he was scheduled to receive two more units. According to the investigator, the patient 
continued to smoke despite physician and family encouragement. Exacerbation of COPD was better at times, but 
worsened with anxiety. Treatment with morphine SL (pm) would resolve both. COPD was not considered a 
separate serious adverse event (SAE). In addition, respiratory failure related to dyspnea was considered between 
grade 3 and grade 4 (3+) as the patient did not require intubation and the investigator confirmed dyspnea was 
considered a symptom. However, the cause of respiratory failure was due to deterioration and comorbidities. On 
4111111111111, the patient was withdrawn from the study. On UM= the event of decreased hemoglobin was 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 82 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
considered resolved. On the patient was discharged from the hospital. On the patient 
died due to disease progression (not reportable as a SAE per protocol). The respiratory failure continued until the 
patients death. Additional medical records are located in the source documents. 
In the opinion of the investigator, the events of respiratory failure related to dyspnea and decreased hemoglobin 
were related to pemetrexed, but not related to carboplatin or protocol procedures. The investigator further 
explained that the patient was at nadir and suseptible to infection. The patient has pulmonary infiltrates. The patient 
was on day 9 of cycle (nadir). 
This case was cross referenced with US201208000143, same patient. 
Update 03-Oct-2012: Additional information was received from the study investigator on 27-Sep-2012. Final 
outcome with resolution date for the event of decreased hemoglobin added to file. Corresponding fields and 
narrative updated a e  oingly. 
Update 12-Nov-2012: Additional information was received from the study investigator on 08-Nov-2012. Patient 
died due to disease progression (not reportable per protocol). Event term respiratory failure due to dyspnea 
amended to respiratory failure as dyspnea was considered a symptom. Outcome for respiratory failure updated. 
Hospital discharge date and patient withdrawn from study added to file. Confirmation COPD was not a separate 
serious adverse event. Corresponding fields and narrative updated accordingly.