A treating neurologist reported that a 24-year-old female patient on TYSABRI infusions (natalizumab, unknown 
dose, IV, unknown frequency) for Multiple Sclerosis (MS) since unknown date was hospitalized in a local hospital 
from an unknown date to (b) (6)  for tremor and speech disorder. Originally, a MS relapse was suspected. 
However, the patient was transferred to a university hospital on (b) (6)  for suspected progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). A cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sample was collected at university hospital for PCR 
testing of JC virus (JVC) on a not specified date. The result was 200 copies. Treatment was not reported. At the 
time of reporting, the event of suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was ongoing and the patient
was staying in the university hospital.
Medical history included MS since Jan 2006. It was unknown if the patient was taking any concomitant medications.
The causality for the event of suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was assessed as related to 
TYSABRI.  It is unknown if TYSABRI treatment is ongoing.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 34 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Preferred Term ( MedDRA  Version: 17.0 ReC
Update 18 Oct 2012: Via a company employee the treating neurologist reported that TYSABRI treatment was 
withdrawn on a not specified date. The patient had not been treated with immunosuppressants prior to TYSABRI 
therapy. The patient was tested positive for anti-JCV antibodies (date not provided). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was 
tested for JC-virus DNA at the local lab. The patient received plasma exchange (PLEX) treatment for suspicion of 
PML. Additionally, a neurologist from the university hospital reported via a company employee that the patient is 
currently in stable condition and a further sample of CSF was sent to another local laboratory (results not provided).
Magnet resonance imaging (MRI) findings are still not available.
Update 26 Oct 2012: The treating neurologist reported that the patient had received 63 infusions of TYSABRI in 
total. TYSABRI therapy had been started on 30 Aug 2007. The patient had tested positive for anti-JCV antibodies 
by STRATIFY JCV test on 13 Sep 2011. Prior to the TYSABRI therapy the patient had been treated with cortisone, 
Avonex (interferon beta- 1a) and Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) for MS. From (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  she 
was hospitalized in a local hospital and treated with cortisone pulse therapy for suspected MS relapse. MRI of brain 
was performed on (b) (6)  and showed a florid contrast-enhancing lesion in the right cerebellar peduncle 
centrally which was consistent with known multiple sclerosis. Further, the MRI showed multiple supratentorial and 
single infratentorial post-inflammatory lesions, pronounced cerebral atrophy with severe disseminated lesion load 
and significant reduction of brain volume. Contrast agent enhanced MRI of cervical and thoracic spine performed 
on the same date revealed single unclear demarcated demyelinating lesions in cervical and thoracic areas 
consistent with post-inflammatory MS lesions at the level of 2nd, 3rd, 6th and 7th cervical vertebrae as well as 4th, 
5th and 9th thoracic vertebrae; no evidence of florid contrast-enhancing MS lesions or segmental spinal cord 
atrophy. Laboratory tests during the hospital stay did not show any clinically relevant abnormal values except of 
hemoglobin of 5.8 g/dl and bilirubin of 1.3 mg/dl. The last TYSABRI infusion was administered on 19 Sep 2012 as 
scheduled. On (b) (6)  the patient presented with new symptoms of general malaise, tremors affecting the 
whole body, headache, tendency to fall to the right side, adynamia and myoclonic jerks in her right arm. 
Subsequently, she was admitted to a university hospital due to suspicion of PML. On (b) (6)  the subject 
underwent a lumbar puncture with results reported as positive for JCV DNA PCR in CSF with less than 200 
copies/mL. The test was done at a local laboratory. The Kurtzke score worsened about one point. According to 
patient?s parents the patient had suffered from dysarthria and ataxic gait. A neurologist from the university hospital 
had reported to the treating physician that there had not been any evidence of immune reconstitution inflammatory 
syndrome (IRIS).
Update 03 Nov 2012: A neurologist from the university hospital reported that at the time the patient presented to the
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 35 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
university hospital she had been suffering from progressive ataxia since several weeks which had been suspected 
to be an MS relapse and which had been treated with cortisone pulse therapy. Considering the ongoing cognitive 
impairment and long-term TYSABRI therapy and initially questionable positive JC-virus DNA detection, PLEX 
therapy was performed. Thereafter, the patient experienced dysarthria which improved during her hospital stay. 
Cerebrospinal fluid was collected again on (b) (6)  and sent to a specialized lab in(b) (6)  Switzerland. The 
result of JCV DNA PCR testing in CSF was more than 5000 copies/ml. On (b) (6)  MRI of brain revealed 
multifocal supratentorial and infratentorial lesions consistent with MS without any evidence of floridity. In addition, 
there were progressing signal alterations in the white matter of both cerebellar hemispheres which were not 
compatible with MS but were suspicious for PML. On (b) (6)  MRI of brain showed minor progression of 
lesions in the right cerebellar hemisphere and no evidence of IRIS. The lesions would be in line with MS as well as 
in line with PML. On (b) (6)  the patient underwent lumbar puncture again (results pending). The patient was 
discharged in stable clinical condition and readmitted after ten days for follow-up.
Update 06 Nov 2012: Based on an internal review of existing information in the case, Biogen Idec now considers 
this case to be a confirmed case of PML.
Update 12 Nov 2012: The neurologist (same as initial reporter) stated that the patient was still hospitalized. On 30 
Aug 2007, prior to start of TYSABRI therapy, the patient had an score on the Expanded Disability Status Scale 
(EDSS) of 5.0 and her score on the Karnofsky Performance Status Scale was 40% (disabled; required special care 
and assistance). On 17 Aug 2012, while on TYSABRI but prior to PML, she had an EDSS of 3.0 and a Karnofsky 
score of 80% (normal activity with effort; some signs or symptoms of disease). On (b) (6)  at time of PML 
diagnosis, she had an EDSS of 4 and her score on the Karnofsky performance status scale was 70% (cares for 
herself; unable to carry on normal activity or to do active work).
Update 20 Nov 2012: A professor of neurology from the university hospital reported that the patient is in his opinion 
a clear case of PML. The lesions, which were seen in the recent MRI, were mainly in cerebellum. The second CSF 
sample (collected on (b) (6) ) showed about 1000 copies/ml of JCV DNA. In the further course, the patient?s 
clinical state protractedly worsened and immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) was diagnosed. At 
present, the patient is still hospitalized at the university hospital and is treated with cortisone pulse therapy. She is 
scheduled to be transferred to a rehabilitation facility at the end of the next week.
Update 22 Feb 2013: The professor of neurology reported the patient was currently treated in a hospital and the 
event of PML had not resolved yet (as assessed on (b) (6) ).
Update 22 Apr 2013: The neurologist (initial reporter) reported that IRIS had been diagosed by means of clinical 
symptoms and MRI findings. On (b) (6)  the patient?s score on the Karnofsky performance status scale was 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 36 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
30 (severely disabled, hospital admission indicated, death not imminent) and EDSS was 7.0. The patient was not 
on any MS therapy at the time of this report. The patient was still hospitalised. The neurologist assessed IRIS as 
related to TYSABRI therapy.
Update 29 Apr 2013: A neurologist from the university hospital reported that cerebellar IRIS symptoms (dysarthria 
and ataxic gait) had started on 16 Nov 2012. On 29 Mar 2013, the patient was awake, cooperative, had no thinking 
disturbances, and suffered from spastic paraparesis, cerebellar ataxia, and gaze evoked nystagmus with diplopia. 
On 29 Mar 2013 the patient?s score on the Karnofsky performance status scale was 50 (requires considerable 
assistance and frequent medical care). EDSS was 7.5 on 25 Mar 2013. On 18 Feb 2013, the patient had 
undergone lumbar puncture. The test for JCV DNA PCR in CSF showed 71 copies/ml of JCV DNA (analyzed on 26
Feb 2013). A cranial MRI was performed on 20 Feb 2013 and compared to previous exams, the latest of which had
been performed on 07 Nov 2012. No significant change in the extended confluent peri- and paraventricular, 
subcortical, juxtacortical as weel as  infratentorial T2 hyperintensities. There were new speckeled T2 lesions 
supraventricular on the left which were contrast enhancing. In both cerebellar peduncles and lateral on both sides 
of the vermis there were T1 hyperintense lesions. In brain stem and cerebellum the extensive T2 lesions had 
increased. The ventricles were slightly enlarged with no apparent congestion of CSF. The findings were assessed 
as consistent with active MS plaques in what concerns the contrast enhancing lesions in the white matter on the left
and consistent with progression of PML in what concerns the progression of the extended infratentorial alterations 
with decrease in contrast enhancement.
Update 30 Sep 2013: A neurologist from the outpatient facility of the university hospital reported that the patient was
alive but markedly physically handicapped. She lived with her parents who care for her. With the help of special 
devices she was able to ride on horseback.
Update 14 Oct 2013: The neurologist (same as initial reporter) submitted the 12 months PML data collection form 
(DCF) with the following information: the patient?s EDSS was 7.0 on 07 Oct 2013 and her Karnofsky score was 50 
(requires considerable assistance and frequent medical care) on unknown date in Oct 2013 (assumed by the 
company). The patient is wheel chair bound, suffering from ataxia and flat euphoric personality disorder. On 02 Aug
2013, Gilenya (fingolimod) was started for MS. The patient was currently living at home. 
The event of PML was ongoing at the time of this report. The event of IRIS resolved on 02 Aug 2013.
Update 27 Jan 2014: The patient reported via an internet chat room that she had now been wheel chair bound for 
about one year. She further mentioned that several MS relapses had occurred during previous treatment with 
AVONEX and Copaxone (refer to Mfr DE-BIOGENIDEC-2014BI009966).
Update 16 Apr 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 37 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Collection Tool. The patient is alive, residing at home, and is currently on fingolimod (Gilenya) for MS therapy. The 
neurologist reported that the patient?s current clinical status includes ataxia, hemiballism, organic personality 
disorder, and progressing cerebellar atrophy. The neurologist assessed the patient?s estimated Karnofsky and 
EDSS scores on 31 Mar 2014 to be 50 (requires considerable assistance and frequent medical care) and 7.0. Two 
lumbar punctures were performed since 18 Feb 2013 (dates and results not reported). The patient has not 
recovered from PML and has recovered from IRIS. Causality for the events was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 17 Oct 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive. The neurologist assessed the patient?s estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores
on 17 Oct 2014 to be 60 (requires occasional assistance, but is able to care for most of her personal needs) and 
7.5. A brain MRI was performed on 20 Jun 2014 (results not provided). The outcome of the event of PML was not 
reported. The patient has recovered from IRIS. Causality for the event of PML was assessed as related to 
TYSABRI. Causality for the event of IRIS was not assessed.