This U.S. serious solicited report from a physician and pharmacist, received via One Path, describes the 
occurrence of osteomyelitis, endocarditis, convulsion, scoliosis, condition aggravated, and pain in a 10-year-old 
Black male patient administered Elaprase (idursulfase) for mucopolysaccharidosis II. 
The patient had a concurrent medical history significant for food allergy (peanut oil allergy), feeding disorder of 
infancy or early childhood, wheelchair user, faecal incontinence, aggression and urinary incontinence. Drug allergy 
status was not reported. 
Concomitant medications included diphenhydramine, heparin, Normal Saline (sodium chloride), Epipen 
(epinephrine), Solu-medrol (methylprednisolone sodium succinate), Solu-Cortef (hydrocortisone sodium succinate), 
hydrocortisone, Adderall (amfetamine aspartate, amfetamine sulfate, dexamfetamine saccharate, dexamfetamine 
sulfate), Zyprexa (olanzapine), Mobic (meloxicam), Tylenol with Codeine (codeine phosphate, paracetamol), 
Depakote (valproate semisodium), Zoloft (sertraline hydrochloride), Nasonex (mometasone furoate), Flovent 
(fluticasone propionate). Atrovent (ipratropium bromide), Xopenex (levosalbutamol hydrochloride), Zyrtec (cetirizine 
hydrochloride), multivitamin and mineral supplement, Neurontin (gabapentin), olanzapine, and sertraline. 
The patient commenced treatment with Elaprase concentrate for solution for intravenous infusion weekly on 09-
OCT-2006, On 17-JAN-2008, the Elaprase dose was changed to 24 mg concentrate for solution for intravenous 
infusion of unspecified frequency. On 22-NOV-2010, Elaprase dosing was increased to 30 mg concentrate for 
solution for intravenous infusion once a week. Last infusion prior to the events was unknown. In AUG-2012, patient 
illness began when he developed lesions in his mouth and began to limp. He was evaluated in an emergency room 
but was sent home. Over the next 7 weeks, he had become progressively sicker with intermittent fevers. A blood 
culture was positive for growth of bacteria On an unspecified date the patient began experiencing pain. It was 
unknown if treatment was provided for the pain and unknown if it resolved.On 1111111111111.11111 the patient was 
admitted to 1111.11=111111110Hospital for antibiotic treatment of osteomyelitis and endocarditis. The patient was 
given Rocephin (ceftriaxone) 2 g in 65 ml IV infusion once a day, gentamicin 160 mg in 100 ml IV infusion once a 
day, and Valium (diazepam) 1.25 mg tablets as needed. The lumbo-sacral spine (L1-S1) was involved and he had 
an abscess in L5-S1 that had to be drained. He was treated by an orthopedist and and infectious disease physician. 
Elaprase treatment was temporarily discontinued on 12-DEC-2012. The patient was in the hospital for about 8 
weeks and in rehab for 5 months. The event resolved on an unknown date. On an unspecified date, the scoliosis of 
his spine C-T and L was worse but no surgery was planned so he was wearing a back brace. The outcome of the 
event was unknown. Int....while admitted to the hospital for treatment of osteomyelitis and endocarditis, 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page  75 of 328 
rpm FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) FOIA Case Report Information 
the patient had one definitive generalized seizure. Treatment, if any and the outcome of the event were unknown. 
Elaprase therapy was resumed on an unknown date and remained ongoing. 
Causality of the events of osteomyelitis and endocarditis was assessed as unrelated to Elaprase therapy. A 
causality assessment was not provided for the events of convulsion and scoliosis, condition aggravated. 
The events of osteomyelitis and endocarditis were considered serious (hospitalization) and the event of convulsion 
was considered serious (medically significant). The event of scoliosis, condition aggravated was considered non-
serious. 
Follow up information was received on 24-OCT-2012. Elaprase dosing information was added, the event of 
scoliosis, condition aggravated was added, and the narrative was updated to reflect the information provided. 
Follow-up was received on 30-JUL-2013. Primary reporter was changed, ethnicity, lab data, and newly reported 
medical history were added, newly reported concomitant medications were added, onset date of osteomyelitis and 
endocarditis was changed, convulsion was added as an event, and the narrative was updated to reflect the 
additional information provided. 
Company Comment 
The company Pharmacovigilance Physician has assessed the events in this case as not related to treatment with 
Elaprase. The patient was diagnosed with osteomyelitis on the lumbo-sacral spine. This likely was the cause of 
the endocarditis. Patients with MPS 11 frequently have neurologic impairments, and are at increased risk for 
seizures. No prior history of seizures was listed. but the patient was taking Neurontin, a medication used for 
chronic pain and seizures. Hence, the events are associated as related to underlying disease or underlying medical 
conditions, and not to product. This case does not alter the benefit/risk profile of the product.