Case reference number 2012-07370, received on 18-OCT-2012, is a company supported investigator initiated trial 
report from study (b) (6)
Local reference number: 20121010725
This case was reported by a physician and refers to female patient aged 71 years ((b) (6) ), who was 
diagnosed with multiple myeloma an unspecified date. The patient's medical history included tuberculosis in 
childhood and pre-existing interstitial syndrome. In DEC-2011, the patient experienced radiologic lung interstitial 
pneumonia with progressive aggravation and with no functional signs (no cough, dyspnoea, cyanosis of the 
extremities or digital hypocratism), except the presence of dry crackles. Medical history also included: anemia, 
gout, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, hemodialysis, neuropathy and arterial hypertension. Concomitant medications
included sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim (Bactrim), valaciclovir (Zelitrex), darbepoetin alfa (Aranesp), omeprazole 
(Mopral), calcium carbonate (Orocal), glyceryl trinitrate (Nitriderm), acetylsalicylate lysine (Kardegic), glyceryl 
trinitrate (Natispray), furosemide and colecalciferol (Uvedose). Since enrolment in the study the patient was 
previously hospitalised due to Enterococcus faecalis pyelonephritis (2012-00946).
The patient received study drugs bortezomib (VELCADE) 1.3mg intravenously from 06-APR-2012 to 13-APR-2012 
and dexamethasone 20mg orally from 06-APR-2012 to 14-APR-2012. On 27-APR-2012 the patient experienced 
grade 2 pulmonary interstitial syndrome with peripheral fibrosis lesions, reported as serious events for medically 
significant reasons. The patient also experienced acute bronchitis at the beginning of the events with persistence of
radiological images despite recovery of bronchitis (not reported as events). Interstitial syndrome was confirmed by 
chest scanner at the beginning of MAY-2012 and showed interstitial lesions suggestive of early lesions of 
pulmonary fibrosis withy honeycomb and diffuse subpleural microcysts. On 19-JUN-2012, a bronchial biopsy 
showed non-specific chronic inflammatory reorganisation with an absence of any features of malignancy. On 06-
AUG-2012, a chest computeristed tomography (CT) was positive for the development of non-specific interstitial 
pneumonia. The investigator stated other considered etiologies included pulmonary disease related to myeloma 
and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Action taken with study medications was not reported.  At the time of this report 
the events were ongoing.
The investigator considered the causality between the events and VELCADE as possibly related. The investigator 
did not provide a causality assessment between the events and dexamethasone.
Additional information was received on 25-OCT-2012:
The event of pulmonary interstitial syndrome was removed from the case.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 42 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
No change to the previous causality assessment was provided. The company assessed causality between the 
event and Dexamethasone as unlikely.
Additional information received on 02-NOV-2012
VELCADE was withdrawn. The outcome of the event was ongoing at the time of the report. 
No change to the previous causality assessment were provided.
Case correction was made on 14-NOV-2012 using ICH 02-NOV-2012:
MedDRA coding was updated to v15.1.
Additional information was received on 25-FEB-2014:
The patient's weight was 80 kg and height 168cm.
The patient was diagnosed with kappa myeloma at the end of 2011. The patient's medical history included 
hypertension and renal impairment
The patient was randomized in the membrane theralite arm. The event term was amended to interstitial 
pneumopathy with fibrosis (severe) (previously reported as lung fibrosis). The discontinuation of Velcade stabilized 
the situation, however at the time of this report, the event was ongoing without treatment. The improvement noted 
in CFT scan of SEP-2013 could be related to the 3rd line of Endoxan which was frequently used as treatment of 
interstitial pneumopathy. 2 problems raised by the analysis of CT scan performed in SEP-2012: the interstitial 
pathology was difficult to be labelled as pseudo-emphysematous cystic disease which could be caused by myeloma
mainly the presence of light chains. The therapeutic option was difficult. Myeloma therapy failed for 3 treatments. It 
was impossible to recommend resuming VELCADE due to its responsibility in the aggravation of patient's interstitial
pneumopathy in spring of 2012. A literature review confirmed a severe toxicity of VELCADE on lung parenchyma 
with bad consequences. No special management was planned for interstitial pneumopathy. The prognosis of 
patient was related to myeloma.
Causality between interstitial pneumopathy with fibrosis (severe) was amended to probably related to VELCADE 
(previously reported as possibly related).
Additional information was received on 17-MAR-2014:
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 43 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The cystic pseudo-emphysematous disease diagnosed on the CT scan of SEP-2012 was considered to be a 
serious adverse event by the reporter. The patient had not recovered from interstitial pneumopathy with fibrosis with
stabilisation of the event and the outcome of the event of cystic pseudo-emphysematous disease was not reported. 
The investigator provided no causality assessment between the event of cystic pseudo-emphysematous disease 
and the study medications. Company causality was assessed as probable for VELCADE and unlikely for 
Dexamethasone. No change to the previous causality assessment was reported.
Additional information was received on 26-MAR-2014.
In DEC-2011, pulmonary lesions were discovered on abdominal tomodensitometry.  Scan in MAY-2012 showed 
quick evolution of images (details not provided) and scan in SEP-2012 showed two types of lesions: interstitial 
pathology and cystic pseudo-emphysematous disease which could cause by myeloma and mainly in presence of 
light chains. The onset date of pulmonary fibrosis was confirmed as 01-SEP-2012. The scan of SEP-2013 showed 
that the interstitial lesions were improved which was possibly related to treatment with cyclophosphamide. Outcome
of the event pulmonary fibrosis was recovered with sequelae. 
The investigator considered the causality between the event pulmonary fibrosis very likely related to VELCADE 
treatment. The investigator did not provide causality assessment between the event pulmonary fibrosis and 
dexamethasone. Company causality assessed as unlikely related.
Additional information was received on 14-APR-2014:
The patient's multiple myeloma reported to be IgG kappa type. The patient's history medical history was updated to 
include myeloma cast nephropathy and bone involvement (compression of L2, L3, and L4 and the posterior arch 
from C3 to D6). 
The patient's initial treatment of haemodialysis with VELCADE and Dexamethasone combination therapy lasted for 
6 months. In MAY-2012, the patient had excellent haematological response with a decrease of more than 60% in 
kappa/lambda ratio and dialysis was stopped in JUN-2012. In JUL/AUG-2012, there was an increase in kappa light 
chains (according to the reporter probable pulmonary toxicity of VELCADE) that prompted second line treatment 
with Dexamethasone and lenalidomide (Revlimid) chemotherapy. After three months of this second line of 
chemotherapy, there was persistent IgG kappa gammopathy and increase in light chains. The CT scan in SEP-
2012 found two pathological entities: interstitial disease that was difficult to define and cystic pseudo-
emphysematous disease which could be attributed to myeloma, specifically the presence of light chains. On 15-
NOV-2012, the third line of chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide was introduced. In MAR-2013, there was 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 44 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
persistence of IgG kappa peak and free light chains in the urine, but reduced serum light chains with one episode of
kappa light chain negativation. Chemotherapy was therefore suspended on 15-MAR-2013 due to this good 
response with disappearance of bone marrow plasma cells and also the haematological toxicity including 
thrombocytopenia. In MAY-2013, there was renewed increase in light chains and the decision was made in JUN-
2013 to resume treatment with Revlimid and Dexamethasone at low dose according to platelets. In SEP-2013, 
there was an improvement noted on the CT scan, which was considered as probably due to the third line of 
treatment with cyclophosphamide. VELCADE was henceforth contraindicated. The patient was re-examined on 24-
MAR-2014 and 28-MAR-2014 in the outpatient clinic. Clinical findings showed no deterioration in general health. 
The clinical examination found essentially a recent onset of neurological disorders for which the patient had 
consulted the emergency room (ER). These disorders had begun 2 to 3 weeks previously with gait disorders, 
difficulty walking, dissymmetry involving the left upper limb and paraesthesia of this limb. There was also blurred 
vision. The examination found a static and kinetic cerebellar syndrome. The brain CT-scan found a hypodense left 
cerebellar hemisphere not corresponding to a vascular territory and difficult to characterize. A magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) was performed on 28-MAR-2014, which found a lesion of the left middle cerebellar peduncle and left
cerebellar substance with T1 (hypo intense), T2 and FLAIR (hyper intense) lesions and with a slight hypersignal on 
diffusion-weighted imaging due to T2 effect. The finding suggested progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy of 
the cerebellar white substance, which was assessed by the Company as serious for medically significant reasons. 
The diagnosis was supported by a lumbar puncture and allowed for a test for John Cunningham (JC) virus by PCR 
as well as blood lymphocyte immunophenotyping. The patient was was hospitalized for two days for the lumbar 
puncture, PCR and blood lymphocyte immunophenotyping. The reporter stated that the kinetic and static cerebellar 
syndrome with blurred vision was probably due to the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, which was a 
complication of immunosuppressive therapy. There were increased levels of circulating serum light chains, stable 
renal function; thrombocytopenia was steady at around 53,000 /mm3 and anaemia controlled by methoxy 
polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta (Mircera). Immediate management was reported as suspension of Revlimid and 
Dexamethasone and methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta (Mircera), cholecalciferol (Uvedose), and folic acid 
(Speciafoldine). The outcome for the event of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy was not reported.
No change to the previous causality assessment was provided. The reporter stated that 'progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy which was a complication of immunosuppressive therapy' which the Company captured as 
possibly related to VELCADE therapy.
This case version, dated 25-APR-2014, was created to make a correction to the information captured in the 
previous narrative:
A lumbar puncture will permit test for JC virus by PCR; hence patient was due to be hospitalised for two days to 
perform lumbar puncture (possibly with prior and subsequent platelet transfusion) PCR for JC virus and blood 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 45 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
lymphocyte immunophenotyping will be performed at the same time.
No changes to the previously reported causality assessments were provided. 
Additional information received on 01-OCT-2014 from a Data Update Request Form (DURF):
On 15-SEP-2012, the patient recovered from cystic pseudo-emphysematous disease and the event interstitial 
pneumopathy with fibrosis was recovering. 
No changes to the previously reported causality assessments.