Medically Significant
Case summary from 01-NOV-2012 to 29 Nov 2012
This case concerns a 41 year old female on TYSABRI for MS x 54 infusions from 21 May 2008 to 18 Oct 2012. She
was anti-JCV antibody positive on 23 Aug 2012; she has prior immunosuppressant exposure with Novantrone. Her 
MS was diagnosed in Feb 1995; other prior therapies include Avonex and Betaseron. She did not experience any 
MS relapses with TYSABRI therapy. On (b) (6)  she presented to the emergency room with confusion, 
fatigue, and worsening gait. On 01 Nov 2012, at an office visit with her neurologist she was noted to have right 
sided hemiparesis, partial left lower extremity weakness, mild cognitive impairment, and aphasia. Baseline brain 
MRI on 08 May 2012 found extensive white matter disease; several of the white matter lesions were perpendicular 
to the corpus callosum and were described as consistent with MS. The white matter plaques were similar to those 
found in prior studies. Routine, follow-up brain MRI on 24 Oct 2012 was described as consistent with MS and 
similar to prior study. A new larger area of abnormal signal on FLAIR and diffusion imaging along the left frontal 
region with T2 shine through was noted. Lumbar puncture on 01 Nov 2012 returned JCV DNA positive from the 
(b) (6)  As of 08 Nov 2012, the patient remained at home with her family with some improvement in her 
expressive aphasia noted. On (b) (6)  she consulted with and was hospitalized by another neurologist at an 
academic medical center and was receiving(b) (6)  Protocol (presumed to be receiving maraviroc, steroids (NOS), 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), anticonvulsant (NOS), and mirtazapine). Biogen Idec considered 
this case confirmed for PML on (b) (6) . As of 29 Nov 2012, the patient had returned home to live with mother 
and had not begun a new MS therapy. 
Update 29 May 2013: Additional information was received from a registered nurse at the neurologist's office via a 
MS Standardized PML Data Collection Tool, diagnostic reports, and office visit notes. The patient is alive, residing 
at home with assistance, and is currently not on any therapy for MS. Progress notes from the patient's last visit on 
28 Jan 2013 noted the following: main issues continue to be cognitive in nature, as well as with speech. The 
patient's verbage is improving and she is able to express herself a large percentage of the time, but still shrugs 
inappropriately and frequently. The patient overall has been in good health. Her appetite is decreased, she is 
sleeping well and bowel and bladder are working well. At the time of visit, the patient was taking methylphenidate 
(Concerta SR) 18 mg PO every morning, levetiracetam (Keppra) 500 mg PO two times daily, levothyorxine 
(SYNTHROID) 25 mcg PO every morning, and alendronate sodium (Fosamax) 10 mg PO every morning. Upon 
assessment of mental status, the patient is alert, but has difficult with orientation questions, significant aphasia, 
repetition is intact, fluent speech with word errors, and comprehension deficits are apparent. On exam the physician
noted the following: intact with mild right facial weakness and trace of right tongue deviation  (CN V - XII), finger to 
nose slowed on the right, difficulty with finger opposition on the right (cerebellar) and gait involves circumduction. 
On 18 Jan 2013 the patient underwent a lumbar puncture with results reported as positive CSF JCV DNA at 290 
copies per/mL (b) (6)  Laboratories), CSF WBC count 20 /uL, CSF RBC count 200 /UL, and CSF lymphocyte 74%. 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 51 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On an unknown date the patient was diagnosed with IRIS by clinical symptoms and MRI findings. The patient was 
treated for IRIS with corticosteroids. The registered nurse assessed the patient's estimated Karnofsky score on 17 
Jan 2013 to be 60 (requires occasional assistance but is able to care for most personal needs). The most recent 
MRI done on 06 Jan 2013 revealed no significant change since the prior MRI (22 Dec 2012), stable multiple ill-
defined and focal T2 hyperintense lesions involving the supratentorial white matter, brainstem and cerebellum. 
Stable punctuate enhancement in the left superior frontal subcortical region, no new lesion and no new area of 
abnormal enhancement noted. Stable greater than age appropriate parenchymal volume loss, particularly in the left
frontal region and temporal regions and developmental venous anomaly in the region of the left corona radiata were
noted. On 10 Dec 2012 the patient had an MRI of the brain done which revealed (compared to prior exam on 03 
Dec 2012), near complete resolution of nodular enhancement seen in the right cingulated gyrus and the left frontal 
lobe. Stable confluent high T2 signal in both frontal temporal lobes and periventricular white matter, left greater than
right, and also in both cerebellar hemispheres noted. Findings are compatible with previously described PML with 
possible resolving immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome. Stable parenchymal volume loss predominantly 
involving the left frontal lobe noted. On 26 Nov 2012 the patient had an MRI of the brain done which revealed stable
confluent T2 hyperintense areas in the left frontal lobe, with few small foci of contrast enchancement in the 
pericallosal region consistent with stable changes of PML. There is no evidence of increase in contrast 
enhancement or mass effect. There are stable multiple supra- and infratentorial demyelinating plaques, with no new
lesions identified. On 13 Nov 2012 the patient had an MRI of the brain done which revealed findings compatible 
with PML in the left frontal lobe, and overall appearance unchanged since 24 Oct 2012 but markedly progressed 
since 08 May 2012. There are multiple demyelinating lesions throughout the supratentorial and infratentorial white 
matter, including the left thalamus and hypothalamic region, compatible with MS. Some lesions appearing with 
increased dimensions since 08 May 2012, with at least two of the lesions involving the anterior limb of the left 
internal capsule. There are two tiny right thalamic lesions also seen. There is redemonstrated left posterior frontal 
developmental venous anomaly and greater than age compatible mild to moderate diffuse parenchymal volume 
loss noted. On 01 Nov 2012 the patient underwent laboratory testing with the following results noted: CSF bands 
10, IGG index (CSF) 2.53%, IGG /albumin (CSF) 0.43, CSF synthesis rate 17.01, positive CSF JCV by PCR at 
115,116 copies per mL, a non reactive HIV test, CD4 lymph count 5.70 thou/mcL, CD3 (T cells) 2989 cells/mcL, 
CD4 (helper cells) 1942 cells/mcL, CD8 (supp'r cells) 1122 cells/mcL. The patient's past medical history is notable 
for Relapsing Remitting MS (approximately 1993, previously reported as onset 1995), questionable seizure (onset 
2011), and hypothyroidism (onset unknown). The patient has not recovered from PML and IRIS. It is unknown if the
patient recovered from the event of questionable seizure.  Causality for the event of PML and IRIS was assessed 
as related to TYSABRI.  Causality for the event of questionable seizure was not assessed.
Update 04 Nov 2013: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool, clinic notes, and diagnostic report. The patient is alive, residing at home with family, and is currently
on Copaxone (started 10 Oct 2013) for MS therapy. The neurologist assessed the patient s estimated Karnofsky 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 52 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
and EDSS scores on 21 Aug 2013 to be 60 (requires occasional assistance, but is able to care for most of her 
personal needs) and 6. On this date, the patient was seen for a two month follow-up visit and the neurologist noted 
that she is starting to feel stronger in the extremities. When asking the patient questions such as date and state she
lives in, she became confused and was tearful. She has intermittent episodes of dizziness. Review of systems was 
positive for fatigue, missed periods, muscle aches, cramps and weakness, loss of strength, poor balance, difficulty 
with speaking, weakness or numbness, tingling, anxiety, and depression. Upon physical examination, the 
neurologist noted increased spasticity of her right leg, sensory disturbance of entire right leg, and spastic weakness
of both legs - paraplegia (right sided weakness 4/5). Her gait is spastic; she walks with a cane and is still wearing a 
right foot brace. Cranial nerve examination was normal. She has right-sided hemiparesis and partial weakness of 
the left lower extremity. She has impairment of bladder function. She has mild cognitive impairment and is aphasic. 
Her MRI (date unspecified) shows advanced MS with progression into her frontal and temporal lobe on the left. At 
the time of the clinic visit, active medications included levothyroxine 25 mg QD, Keppra (levetiracetam) 500 mg 
BID, and Remeron (mirtazapine) 15 mg at bedtime. The patient was given an order for PT and speech therapy. On 
13 May 2013, the patient underwent a brain MRI with results reported as the confluent asymmetric foci of abnormal 
signal intensity within the subcortical white matter of both frontal and parietal lobes, left greater than right, extending
into the basal ganglia, left thalamus, left midbrain and pons, and is highly suggestive of the known PML 
superimposed on a background of grossly stable MS are stable compared to the prior MRI dated 06 Jan 2013. No 
discrete evidence of active demyelination at this time. The patient has not recovered from PML and causality for the
event was assessed as related to TYSABRI. The outcome of the event of IRIS and causality to TYSABRI were 
unknown.
Update 03 Nov 2013: A report was received from literature. Kim, Stephanie,  DO; Merrie Viscarra. Transcortical 
Sensory Aphasia with Right Hemiparesis after Natalizumab Treatment in a 42-year-old female with Relapsing 
Remitting Multiple Sclerosis: A case Report. The patient received natalizumab for four years due to relapsing-
remitting multiple sclerosis. She subsequently developed severe fluent aphasia, impaired comprehension and right 
hemiparesis. Initial outpatient brain MRI demonstrated a large left fronto-temporal white matter lesion consistent 
with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy with partial enhancement. A lumbar puncture was performed with 
the CSF PCR positive for JC virus (>151,000 viral copies). The patient was admitted to the hospital for further 
medical treatment involving immune stimulation with filgrastim. Repeat brain MRI remained stable and she was 
discharged with recommendations for 24-hour supervision given cognitive deficits. One month later, she was re-
admitted for her second course of immune stimulation. A repeat MRI was performed which demonstrated interval 
development of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS). She completed a course of IV 
methylprednisone and was transitioned to an oral prednisone taper one week later after repeat brain MRI had 
remained stable. Patient was discharged to an acute inpatient rehabilitation facility for further speech and physical 
therapy. After two weeks of multidisciplinary rehabilitation, patient demonstrated significant functional improvements
in basic ADL's, gait, and mobility. She also demonstrated mild improvements in auditory comprehension and ability 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 53 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
to follow simple contextual directions. Two months after discharge from acute rehabilitation facility and after 
completion of four weeks of post-immune stimulation treatment, repeat LP showed marked reduction in the number
of JCV copies (290 viral copies) indicating a clearance of the virus, which was a prognostically favorable indicator.
Update 06 May 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive, residing at home with family and is currently on Copaxone for MS therapy since
10 Oct 2013.  The neurologist assessed the patient's estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores to be 60 (requires 
occasional assistance, but is able to care for most of personal needs) and 6.0 on 20 Nov 2013.  The most recent 
MRI was 13 May 2013. The patient has not recovered from PML and the outcome of IRIS is unknown. Causality for 
the event of PML was assessed as related to TYSABRI. Causality to TYSABRI for the event of IRIS was assessed 
as unknown.
Addendum 20 May 2014: Upon internal review, it was noted that during the previous submission, the Company 
Receive Date field was inadvertently entered as 06 May 2013 and has now been corrected to 06 May 2014.
Update 12 Sep 2014: Information was received via a poster presented at the 2014 Joint Annual Meeting of the 
Americas Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ACTRIMS) and the European Committee 
for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ECTRIMS), Boston, MA. Stefoski D, Balabanov R, Ko M, Strong 
J, Hernandez C, Muth C, Mercurio M, Javed A (September 2014). Fifteen non-fatal outcomes in natalizumab-
associated PML/IRIS: the effects of early diagnosis and evolving novel therapeutic approaches. The authors 
reported 15 patients with MS with PML occurring after 14-70 months of natalizumab treatments as well as 2 
additional PML patients in early phases of treatment and recovery.  Patient 15 refers to a 41 year old female.  The 
patient was on TYSABRl for 4 years and was previously on glatiramer acetate.  She presented with dysphagia and 
was later diagnosed with PML.  The patient did not undergo plasma exchange (PLEX).  Treatment included 
filgastrim for six weeks.  The patient is still recovering from PML.  The patient's current EDSS is 4.0 and the patient 
is markedly worse.  She is residing at home but requiring semi-dependent care.  A corresponding abstract (P858) 
was published in the Multiple Sclerosis Journal 20 (S2) 2014. Retrieved from msj.sagepub.com.
Addendum: Upon internal review on 05 Nov 2014, EDSS of 4.0, previously reported in 12 Sep 2014 update, was 
incorrectly reported. The correct EDSS for this patient case is 6.0 and Karnofsky score is 50.
Update 23 Jul 2015: A registered nurse from the physician's office reported the patient had been confirmed for 
PML, via a CSF test, in(b) (6)  (consistent with previously reported information). The patient has not yet 
recovered and causality was assessed as unknown (previously reported as related). Additional previous medication
included Betaseron (interferon beta-1b) from 01 Nov 2007 to an unknown date. TYSABRI was stopped on 18 Oct 
2012 due to PML.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 54 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information