Medically Significant
A sales representative learnt from a neurologist working in a clinic that they had there a female patient on TYSABRI
with high suspicion of Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). Patient?s symptoms would consist of 
abnormal behavior. JC virus (JCV) would be positive and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) would be clearly 
consistent.
Update 15 Nov 2012: A neurologist from the clinic where the patient had been recently admitted ((b) (6) ) 
provided an adverse event report and answered additional questions on the phone. The 35-year-old female patient 
had been on TYSABRI infusions (natalizumab, 300 mg, IV, frequency not reported) for multiple sclerosis (MS) from 
2007 to 11 Oct 2012. First suspicious neurological symptoms occurred end of Aug 2012 and comprised double 
vision, gait disturbance and worsening of depression. These symptoms had been considered to be MS related. 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 66 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Therefore, the patient had been treated with cortisone. Medical history comprised Crohn's disease since 2000, MS 
since 2004 and depression since an unknown date. Concomitant medication comprised Salofalk 1000 (mesalazine,
TID) since 2000, Ubretid (distigmine, 5 mg, BID) since 2011 and venlafaxine (75 mg, QD) since Sep 2012, the 
indications of use were not specified. 
In (b) (6)  (date not known to the reporter), STRATIFY JCV test was performed: anti-JCV antibodies were 
detected. In the further course, the suspicious neurological symptoms aggravated. The patient had been 
hospitalized at the clinic (date of admission not reported) and treated there (NOS). The patient presented with 
organic brain syndrome and with hemiparesis on the right, mainly affecting the right arm and the right leg. MRI 
which was recently performed at the clinic (date not reported) showed multiple demyelinating lesions in cerebrum 
and also in cerebellum. The radiologist from the clinic could not definitely distinguish whether those lesions were 
MS or PML related. On (b) (6)  cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was taken and the analysis gave evidence of 
lympho-monocytic cells without increase in total cell count. Furthermore, CSF sample was sent to a foreign 
laboratory where JC virus was detected. On (b) (6)  after phone notification about detection of JC virus DNA 
in the CSF by the laboratory, the patient was transferred to a university clinic. Treatment included mirtazapine (30 
mg, QD) for PML. The event of suspicion of PML is ongoing. In addition to hospitalization, the neurologist 
considered the event serious due to permanent disability. The causality was related. 
TYSABRI was permanently discontinued. Last TYSABRI infusion had been administered on 11 Oct 2012.
Update 20 Nov 2012: Based on an internal review of existing information in the case Biogen Idec now considers the
case to be a confirmed case of PML based on positive CSF, positive MRI, and clinical symptoms.
Update 20 Nov 2012 (later on): A professor of neurology from the university hospital reported that the patient is still 
hospitalized and in his opinion this is a clear case of PML. The lesions, which were seen in the recent MRI, are 
mainly in cerebellum. The reporter had been informed that the JCV PCR test in CSF would be positive, but the 
number of JC ? virus DNA copies is unknown, since there is still no written report available. At present, the patient 
undergoes plasmapheresis.
Update 21 Nov 2012: The treating neurologist from the university hospital confirmed that the patient had received 
plasmapheresis and then she was transferred to general ward.  The described symptoms persisted. The recent 
MRI showed typical PML lesions in cerebellum and brainstem.The neurologist reported that JC virus PCR test in 
CSF was negative in his local lab (exact date not provided).
Update 22 Nov 2012: The initially treating neurologist reported via a field force associate that the result of JCV PCR
test (company comment: sample from (b) (6) ) revealed 80 copies/ml. 
From the neurologist from the outpatient unit where the patient had received her TYSABRI infusions the field force 
associated learnt the following on the course of events prior to the diagnosios of PML was established: the patient 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 67 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
had presented with MS relapse symptoms previously (Aug 2012) and had been treated with cortisone pulse 
therapy. However, the cortisone treatment was not effective and patient?s clinical condition worsened. Therefore, 
the diagnosis of PML was taken into account.
Update 06 Dec 2012: The neurologist who had previously treated the patient with TYSABRI reported that the 
patient had been treated with plasmapheresis and is currently doing fine and is at home. He reported that the 
patient recovered from PML on 23 Nov 2012 and he assessed that PML was related to TYSABRI. On 28 Jun 2011, 
an anti-JCV antibody test (STRATIFY JCV) had been positive for anti-JCV antibodies. An MRI report for an MRI 
performed on 18 Jun 2012 (before the diagnosis of PML) was provided. There were new MS lesions in left occipital 
lobe and in cerebellar peduncles; no contrast enhancing lesions; no signs of PML. Another MRI had been done at 
the time of the PML diagnosis on 07 Nov 2012; the reporter did not have the results. The patient?s Karnofsky 
Performance Status Scale scores were as follows: 80 on 18 Sep 2007 prior to the TYSABRI therapy; 80 on 21 Jun 
2012 prior to the PML, and 50 on 06 Nov 2012 at the time of PML diagnosis. Patient?s Expanded Disability Status 
Scale (EDSS) had been 4.0 on 18 Sep 2012 and also pm 21 Sep 2012 prior to the PML. EDSS was 6.0 on 06 Nov 
2012 at the time of PML diagnosis.
Update 12 Feb 2013: The professor of neurology from the university hospital stated that at the time of the PML 
diagnosis ((b) (6) ) patient's score on the Karnofsky scale had been 70 and EDSS had been 4.5. Patient's 
current Karnofsky score was 40 and she was treated in a rehabilitation center. According to the professor, the 
patient had not recovered from the PML.
Update 10 Jun 2013: A neurologist from the university hospital submitted the PML data collection form for 6 months
with following information: the patient is alive and lives at home. The most recent brain MRI had been done in Apr 
2013. MRI results were not provided. On 02 May 2013, patient's Karnofsky score was 40 (disabled; requires special
care and assistance) and EDSS was 7.0. No new CSF samples had been collected. The patient was currently not 
treated for MS and had not received therapy with steroids. The patient had not developed an immune reconstitution
inflammatory syndrome (IRIS). PML was assessed as related to TYSABRI and had not yet resolved.
Update 30 Sep 2013: The neurologist from the outpatient unit of the university hospital reported that the patient 
lived at home together with her two school children. The patient was wheelchair bound.
Update 08 Nov 2013: The initially reporting neurologist reported via a sales representative that the patient was 
severely disabled.
Update 11 Nov 2013: The patient who is enrolled in a Biogen Idec sponsored marketing program of Monitored 
Therapy reported that she had been hospitalised due to PML (onset (b) (6)  according to the patient). The patient 
reported that her MS medication included Rebif (interferon beta-1a, dosing regimen not specified).
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 68 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 21 Nov 2013: The initially reporting neurologist confirmed that she had seen the patient a few months ago 
and that she is suffering from incomplete tetraplegia. Hence, she needs support for transitioning from bed to 
wheelchair. The patient had also some cognitive impairment. The patient lives at home together with her husband 
and children. The neurologist referred to another neurologist to provide more information
Update 26 Nov 2013: The referred neurologist was currently not able to provide information about the patient, as he
will only see her in mid Jan 2014.
Update 21 Jan 2014: The neurologist, who had previously treated the patient with TYSABRI, provided Month 12 MS
Standardized PML Data Collection Tool. The patient is alive and lives at home. On 15 Jan 2014, the patient?s 
Karnofsky score was 40 (disabled, requires special care and assistance) and estimated EDSS score was 7.5. No 
new CSF samples had been collected since the last reporting. The patient was not receiving any MS therapy. The 
neurologist considered the event of PML as not resolved. He also ticked the box for the event of immune 
reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) not being resolved as well. This information is discrepant from the 
previously received information from the neurologist from the university hospital who had stated that there was no 
evidence of IRIS in this patient.
Update 30 Jun 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive, residing at home and currently not receiving any Multiple Sclerosis therapy.  On
16 Jan 2014, the neurologist assessed the patient?s current clinical status as follows: The patient had experienced 
a mild deterioration of her condition following rehabilitation. She is not able to carry out some activities of daily life 
(e.g. putting butter on the rolls) any longer. She is cared for in her own home by a friend. She is able to do few 
steps in order to assist during transfer; otherwise, she is bound to a wheelchair. Her memory is slowed down 
significantly and is pretty bad. Neurological examination: dissociated gaze-evoked nystagmus to the left; 
internuclear ophthalmoplegia; drift of both arms in pronator drift test accompanied by significant tremor of the right 
arm; finger?to?nose test: abnormal on the right side; mild dysarthria; hand grip powerful on both sides; spastic 
paraparesis; edemas on both legs; weak reflexes on both sides, Babinski positive on both sides; the patient is able 
to stay with assistance for a short time. The patient has a significant organic brain psycho syndrome with 
depressive mood. No motivation, sleep disturbances. Epicrisis: significant deficits due to PML, the patient is 
dependent to permanent care. The relatives are trying to get further rehabilitation for the patient. Further intensive 
occupational therapy and physiotherapy will be doing. The patient receives mirtazapine and Lyrica (pregabalin). The
neurologist assessed the patient's estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores to be 40 (disabled; requires special care 
and assistance) and 7.5 respectively on 16 Jan 2014.  The most recent MRI of the brain was done on 20 Feb 2014 
and results were not reported. No additional lumbar punctures have been done since last reporting. As of 16 Jan 
2014, the patient had not recovered from the events PML and IRIS (onset unknown; discrepant information from 
the neurologist at university hospital who stated there was no evidence of IRIS in this patient). Causality for the 
events of PML and IRIS was assessed by the neurologist as related to TYSABRI.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 69 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 03 Dec 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive, residing at home, and is not currently on any MS therapy. The neurologist 
assessed the patient's estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores on 21 Jul 2014 to be 50 (requires considerable 
assistance and frequent medical care) and 8.0. A brain MRI was performed on 16 Sep 2014 (results not provided). 
As of 21 Jul 2014, the patient had not recovered from PML and had not recovered from IRIS. Causality for both 
events was assessed as related to TYSABRI.