ThiS figin"S'  clinical trial 
a 77 Year old Male. 
Medical History included a coronary artery bypass, colectomy, tobacco user, myocardial infarction, Radiotherapy, 
head and neck cancer, lip neoplasm malignant stage unspecified, drug hypersensitivity, anemia, coronary artery 
disease, drug h o nsifivity, diabetes mellitus, pyrexia, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, mucosal inflammation, 
alanine 40 ansferase increased and rash. Concomitant medications include fenofibrate, prednisolone acetate, 
In- 00  e 0  tartrate, rosuvastatin calcium, amlodipine besilate, pioglitazone hydrochloride, lansoprazole, fiuconazole, 
nystatin, tic 0  acetonide, acetylsalicylic acid, folic acid, promethazine, oxycodone hydrochloride and 
hyoscine. 
On 01,44AR-2011, the 0 received the first doses of erlotinib (150 mg) orally daily, pemetrexed (500 mg/m2) 
intra . ilV) every 3 weeks and radiation daily, for the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and 
neck. 01. eldays after the start of therapy, the patient presented to the radiation clinic with a 2 day 
history of nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, decreased oral intake and fatigue. The patient was found to be 
dehydrated and 0 0. tatic and was transferred to the hospital where he was admitted with grade 3 dehydration and 
associated hypotension and o  2 voeakness. 13,000 pressure was 77/54. Metoprolol and arn1.0. '0 ;.;; besylate 
were heid. Onallini. the patient had a clinical swallowing evaluation due to coughing and choking with thin 
liquids. The .impression was positive clinical concern for dysphagia and possibly grade 2 aspiration at bedside. On 
. , grade 3 anorexia required G tube placement. Medical records noted that the patient has been doing 
well 0 ,-  --,  ion when he lost IV access which was being used .to treat 
hyponatremia.  that aft; ,00.0 ,  .he passed out, presumably due to vasovagal syncope and hit his head causing 
a large gash. Head computerized to... phy (CT) revealed no acute intracranial hemorrhage and the laceration 
was sutured. Later that evening he was using his mouthwash and aspirated, he was then transferred to bone 
marrow	 (BMT).for closer .7,..3 !;oring. While there he became febrile (103.5) and his hemoglobin dropped 
to. 6.4 (from 14.1), He was given 1 unit- of paced red cells and hemoglobin was 11.2, his blood pressure also 
8.0 ; 0 to drop, was 0. , 0 4 0 a mean arterial pressure (MAP) in the 50s and was tachypnic with a rate in the 40s, 
he was then transferred to the medical intensive care unit (MIC.U) for further intervention with an assessment of 
sepsis presumed s. 0: .0ary to aspiration event, acute blood and hypnatremia. He was treated with 
vancomycinend   e for the presumed aspiration. 0, the patient continued to decline with 
grade 3  a  ,pain, tachypnea with.bipap, hemodynamrc InStabdity, lactic acidosis. Abdominal films were 
worrisome for portal gas findings consistent with bowel ischemic disease. After discussion with the family and 
medical team, the family requested no surgical intervention or intu.bation. The last dose of erlotinib and radiation 
therapy was given on 06-APR-2011. The patient expired on 111111111111111at 1,13:46111111days after the start of 
Print Time: 12-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 129  of 324 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
therapy and o the last dose of erlotinib and raditation. The family declined an autopsy. The 
cause of death was pneumonia, due to or as a consequence of aspiration with head and neck cancer as 
a significant condition contributing to death. Additional information has been requested. 
in the opinion of the investigator, the events pneumonia, aspiration, small bowel ischemia, hypotension, 
dehydration and sepsis were all related to erlotinib . The investigator further commented that it is not believed that 
itself caused small bowel ischemia, however there was a possibility that in conjunction with the other 
components of treatment (re-irradiation and pemetrexed) to have led to dehydration, sepsis, hypotension and in 
that context to small bowel ischemia in a patient with a history of arteriopathy. All other medical conditions: 
dehydration, Ii, sion, sepsis, aspiration, bowel ischemia were considered in a similar manner; erlotinib by itself 
did not cause any of them, but in conjunction with re4rradiation and pemetrexed, it contributed to their development. 
The investigators relatedness assessment of the events to pemetrexed was reported as unknown. No assessment 
was provided for the re-irradiation. 
Update 054NC-2E112: Upon review for expedited reporting, the case was unlocked to correct the analysis 
statement.