A prescribing neurologist reported via a TOUCH Prescribing Program form that a female patient, currently 28 years 
old, on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple Sclerosis from 05 Dec 2007 to 20 Nov 2012 had experienced PML 
(onset unknown). The neurologist indicated that in May 2012, the patient tested positive for anti-JCV antibodies. No 
further information was provided. Causality was not assessed by the neurologist. Per the TOUCH database, the 
patient had received a total of 60 doses of TYSABRI from 05 Dec 2007 to 20 Nov 2012. TYSABRI has been 
discontinued. Attempts to obtain additional information continue. 
Update 13 Dec 2012: A different neurologist spontaneously reported that the female patient was hospitalized on an 
unspecified date in 2012 due to suspicion for PML characterized by hemiparesis (onset 20 Nov 2012). On an 
unknown date in 2012, a spinal tap was performed which revealed positive [JCV} results at >20,000 (units and 
laboratory information not provide). Additional testing in 2012 (specific date not provided) included magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) which revealed typical PML lesions and a large suspicious lesion in right hemisphere. 
Treatment included plasma exchange (PLEX) x 5; outcome was reported as not recovered. Causality of the PML 
was assessed as related to TYSABRI. The neurologist also reported that the patient was hospitalized in (b) (6)  
due to a major MS relapse (onset (b) (6) ). Additionally, the patient experienced a cracked sternum and a broken
left wrist which were sustained in a motor vehicle accident (onsets (b) (6) ). Testing, treatment, and outcome 
for the events of MS relapse, cracked sternum, and broken left wrist were not provided. Causality was not assessed
for these events. TYSABRI has been withdrawn (discrepant, previously reported as discontinued).
Update 14 Dec 2012: In response to a phone call to obtain additional information regarding event of PML, the 
prescribing neurologist provided additional information which included diagnostic test results and office visit notes. 
The neurologist re-reported that the patient has PML, confirming that the patient's cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) and 
serum were positive for JCV. The patient had no prior immunosuppressive therapy. At the time of the report, the 
patient was at home after completing PLEX about 5 days ago, and has no signs of immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome (IRIS). The patient was scheduled to have a repeat MRI on 14 Dec 2012 (results not 
provided). Testing on 04 Dec 2012 included a quantitative JC Virus PCR (via CSF) which was positive at 23, 400 
DNA copies/mL (assay range 100 copies/mL to 1x10e8 copies/m) performed by (b) (6)  Laboratories. On 05 Dec 
2012, a brain MRI (with and without contrast) was performed which revealed a large confluent area of subcortical 
T2 prolongation in the right frontal and parietal lobe without mass effect or abnormal enhancement, which 
demonstrated restricted diffusion along the advancing edge and extends into deep white matter and the lesion 
included the primary somatosensory and motor cortices, finding are compatible with PML; numerous, multifocal 
ovoid lesions with T2 signal prolongation in periventricular and subcortical white matter in a pattern and 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 73 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
configuration that are typical for MS; and parenchymal volume loss greater than expected for patient age. These 
findings, when compared to MRIs from (b) (6)  (noted to have been concerning for PML) and 16 Apr 2012, 
included no significant change when compared to prior study of (b) (6)  with respect to the large confluent 
area of subcortical white matter edema that is non-enhancing in the right frontal and parietal lobe that restricts 
diffusion along its medial edge extending into the deep white matter consistent with PML; findings suggestive of 
PML were not present on the scan from 16 Apr 2012; no change in the many periventricular, subcortical, and 
juxtacortical white matter lesions of T2 prolongation as well as similar lesions in the cerebellum and brainstem. 
Medical records consisting of office notes from a follow-up visit on 11 Dec 2012 were provided. Past MS therapy 
included Rebif (interferon beta-1a), without significant improvement, some worsening. It was note that TYSABRI 
was excellent for controlling the patient's MS, but it was complicated by PML, symptoms of which evolved from mid-
October, beginning with left hand numbness and then weakness, involving left face, arm, and leg. The patient was 
treated with Acthar (adrenocorticotropic hormone), and then 5 days of intravenous methylprednisolone (IVMP) in 
early and mid Nov [2012] for MS relapse by her prescribing neurologist, without significant improvement in her 
symptoms. A MRI performed on (b) (6)  was very suspicious for PML lesion in right frontal and parietal lobe, 
and 2 plasma exchanges were performed at a local hospital, and oral Decadron (dexamethasone) was initiated. 
The patient was then transferred to a different hospital for further evaluation and a lumbar puncture (LP) was 
performed on day of transfer (date not specified; presumed to refer previously reported spinal tap) which confirmed 
to diagnosis of PML with 23,400 copies in the CSF (previously reported) and 90,000 in serum.  The patient was 
treated with a total of 5 PLEX sessions, the last occurring on (b) (6)  which the patient tolerated well. Oral 
Decadron was discontinued on admission. During the patient's hospitalization, the patient's voice improved and left 
facial movement also improved. The patient was discharged home on (b) (6)  At the time of the follow-up 
visit, it was noted that the patient felt more "like herself" emotionally, but was having difficulty using her left leg even
in the absence of major weakness, gait hemiparetic, apraxic on left, and walking assisted with cane or one person. 
It was noted that the patient had TYSABRI-associated PML affecting her right frontoparietal subcortical white 
matter. The plan time at of office visit was to monitor the patient closely for IRIS, with q 2 week brain MRIs and 
office visits to the treating neurologist. It was noted that if significant gadolinium enhancement was seen in the brain
or clinical signs of IRIS occurred, treatment would include IVMP pulses. Occupational, physical, and speech 
therapy were prescribed, and initiation of Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) was discussed, with a start after patient's 
next MRI (scheduled for 18 Dec 2012).  Abnormal test results for (b) (6)  included (units and reference ranges
not provided): hemoglobin (HGB) at 10.7 g/dL, platelets at 155 x 10(9)/L, and creatinine at 0.49 mg/dL. Abnormal 
test results on (b) (6)  included (units and reference ranges not provided): white blood cell (WBC) at 10.9 x 
10(9)/L, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) at 21 mg/dL and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) at 44.5 seconds. 
No further information was provided.
Update 14 Dec 2012: Additional information was reported by the patient's treating neurologists via a Biogen Idec 
employee (MSL).  The patient was diagnosed with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis was diagnosed in 2006. 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 74 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Previous MS therapy included Rebif from 2006 to 2008. PML was diagnosed on 29 Nov 2012. On 24 Jun [2012] the
patient experienced left hand weakness. In mid-Oct [2012], the patient experienced hemiparesis" left hand, left arm,
left leg leading to some gait impairment; facial numbness, and MRI lesions were observed. During the first week of 
Nov [2012], the patient was treated with Acthar (previously reported). On (b) (6)  the patient experience 
dysarthria and was admitted to the hospital. On (b) (6)  CSF PCR testing revealed 22,000 viral copies (date 
and viral load discrepant from previous reports) and 99,000 copies by PCR serum sample. On (b) (6)  the 
patient had received 2 rounds of PLEX. On (b) (6)  the patient was transferred to a different hospital, and 
received 3 additional rounds of PLEX. On (b) (6)  the patient was discharged from the hospital. As of 14 
Dec [2012], the patient appeared to have worsened, experiencing cognitive and visual neglect. A MRI was 
subsequently performed (Dec 2012; results not provided). No further information was provided.  Additional 
information is expected.
Update 22 Dec 2012: In response to additional information, the patient's treating neurologist provided a clinical 
update. The neurologist reported that the patient has been relatively stable, is currently at home with left 
hemiparesis and hemisensory syndrome, and that her left leg was a little weaker, The neurologist indicated that 
another MRI might be performed. No further information was provided. Additional information is expected.
Update 09 Jan 2013:  The treating neurologist provided the following additional information.  On 05 Jan [2013] the 
patient was diagnosed with IRIS characterized by focal seizures, headache, and vomiting.  Treatment included IV 
methylprednisolone.  On 09 Jan 2013, the PML lesion was reduced and the IRIS lesion was not expanding (test 
used not reported).  The patient has left hemiparesis and requires a cane to walk; the team is currently considering 
a 10 day oral steroid taper.
Update 18 Jan 2013: Additional information was received from the treating neurologist via a MS Standardized PML 
Data Collection Tool. (Prior to starting TYSABRI) the neurologist assessed the patient's estimated Karnofsky and 
EDSS scores in 2007 to be 80 (normal activity with effort; some signs or symptoms of disease) and 6 and (on 
TYSABRI prior to PML) the estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores from 2008 to 2012 to be 90 (able to carry on 
normal activity; minor signs or symptoms of disease) and 2.5. On 04 Dec 2012 the patient had a positive blood JCV
DNA test. On 05 Dec 2012 the patient had a negative HIV test. (At time of PML diagnosis) the neurologist assessed
the patient's estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores in Nov-Dec 2012 to be 50 (requires considerable assistance 
and frequent medical care) and 6. At the time of this report, the patient is residing in a rehabilitation facility. She has
not recovered from PML and causality was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 10 Jan 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive, residing at home, and is currently on Copaxone (started Dec 2012) for MS 
therapy. The neurologist assessed the patient?s current clinical status as stable left hemiparesis and left arm 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 75 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
paralysis (plegic). The neurologist assessed the patient?s estimated Karnofsky score in Dec 2013 to be 50 
(requires considerable assistance and frequent medical care) and assessed the estimated EDSS on 19 Dec 2013 
to be 6.5. A brain MRI was done on 19 Sep 2013 with results reported as follows: No change in large confluent area
of T2 prolongation in the right frontal and parietal subcortical white matter demonstrating no mass effect, marked 
T1 hypointensity, no restricted diffusion and no enhancement likely sequelae of prior PML and/ or IRIS. Extensive 
regions of T2 prolongation in the periventricular and subcortical white matter in a pattern and configuration 
consistent with multiple sclerosis with redemonstration of lesions within right lateral pons and cerebellum, left more 
than right, and suggestion of a new area of T2 prolongation in the anterior limb of right internal capsule. No 
abnormal enhancement to suggest active demyelination currently. Parenchymal volume loss greater than expected 
for patient age with greater volume loss in the right frontal and parietal lobes. No additional lumbar punctures have 
been performed. The patient has recovered from PML and IRIS. Causality for the events was assessed as related 
to TYSABRI.
Update 07 Jul 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool and diagnostic report. The patient is alive, residing at home, and is currently on Copaxone (started 
Dec 2012) for MS therapy. The neurologist reported that the patient was seen on 03 Jul 2014 and had stable left 
hemiparesis, still with very little left arm movement. She needs help with bathing and dressing, and can walk with a 
quad cane. The neurologist assessed the patient's estimated Karnofsky score on 07 Jul 2014 to be 50 (requires 
considerable assistance and frequent medical care). A brain MRI was performed on 31 Mar 2014 with results 
reported as follows: no significant interval change in confluent right hemispheric white matter T2 hyperintensity 
likely representing sequelae of prior PML and/ or IRIS. No significant interval change in background supratentorial 
and infratentorial white matter hyperintense lesions in keeping with patient?s history of multiple sclerosis. No 
evidence of active inflammation. No additional lumbar punctures have been performed. Currently, the patient does 
not have an active PML infection but still has significant sequelae. She has recovered from IRIS. Causality for the 
events was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 16 Jan 2015: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool and diagnostic report. The patient is alive, residing at home, and is currently on Copaxone (started 
in 2013) for preventative MS therapy. The neurologist assessed the patient's estimated Karnofsky and EDSS 
scores on 16 Jan 2015 to be 50 (requires considerable assistance and frequent medical care) and 6.5. The most 
recent brain MRI was performed on 08 Jan 2015 with results reported as follows: new T2/FLAIR hyperintense 
lesions within the right pons/medulla and right superior cerebellar peduncle compared to prior study. No abnormal 
enhancement to suggest active demyelinization. Remaining T2/FLAIR hyperintense lesions in a pattern compatible 
with demyelinating disease are without significant interval change. No significant interval change in confluent right 
hemispheric white matter T2 prolongation likely representing sequela of prior PML. The patient has recovered from 
PML and has recovered from IRIS. Causality for the events of PML and IRIS was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 76 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information