This Non-Sponsored 
concerns a 74 Years old Female patient. 
Medical History: Not reported. Concomitant Medication(s): fondaparinux sodium, metoprolol, simvastatin, 
amlodipine, glimepiride, prochiorperazine, tilidine hydrochloride, ibuprofen, zoledronic acid, pantoprazole. 
On 11-OCT-2012, the patient received the first dose of pemetrexed (500m g/m2, every 3 weeks) intravenously (IV), 
for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). On Ilidays since the start of therapy, the 
patient developed pulmonary embolism right lower lobe and was ospitalized:-That same day, she developed 
h is (not serious), which required treatment. The patient underwent a lung perfusion scintigram (results not 
). On the pulmonary embolism right lower lobe resolved. A discharge date was not reported. 
Study therapy was m o at that time. The investigator determined that the pulmonary embolism right lower 
lobe was related to hemoptysis and dyspnea. On 15-NOV-2012, the patient received a dose of pemetrexed. On 19- 
NOV-2012, hemcf was 4.7 mmol/l and treatment included platelet concentration, erythrocyte concentrates and 
filgrastim. O. ,Odays since the first dose of study therapy and days since the last dose, the 
patient was hospitalized with worsening of health condition after chemotherapy due to pancytopenia. On 
OP the event of pancytopenia resolved and treatment with platelet concentration, erythrocyte concentra es was 
stopped. A discharge date was not reported. On 19-DEC-2012, the patient began therapy with erlotinib 
hydrochloride (150 mg daily) for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. On 23-DEC-2012, treatment with 
filgrastim was st 8  ;o.  On the patient was hospitalized for pneumonia. That same day, the patient 
was treated with piperacillin sodium/tazobactam sodium. Laboratory results included C-reactive protein 267.96 
mg/I. On 01-JAN-2013, the patient was treated with ceftriaxone sodium and metronidazole and treatment with 
0 0 Olin sodium/tazobactam sodium was stopped. 04111110.1.11, the patient died from pneumonia. It was not 
reported if an y was performed. The therapy with erlotinib hydrochloride was ongoing at the time of death. 
Additional information has been requested. 
In the opinion of the investigator, the event of fatal pneumonia was not related to pemetrexed or erlotinib, but 
related to a new illness. The event of pulmonary embolism right lower lobe was not related to pemetrexed, but 
related to a new illness. The event of pancytopenia was related to pemetrexed and not related to erlotinib. 
Relatedness to ..0 ol procedures was not provided. 
Update 30-Jan-2013: Additional information received 29-JAN-2013 from manufacturer. Event term of worsening of 
health condition was changed to pancytopenia and pneumonia was added as the fatal event. Additional study 
therapy, concomitant medications and laboratory restults were provided along with additional information regarding 
Print Time; 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field Is blank, there Is no data for that field Page 201 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
the events. Relevant fields and narrative were updated accordingly.