Report No 1 received from US consumer relations, Date 25-DEC-2012, Reference no: C242104140.
Suspect Drug: Mucinex Children Cough Liquid Cherry (Guaifenesin ; Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide)
Dosing: 2.5 ml every 6 hours.
Case reference number US-RB-048005-12 is a spontaneous case report sent by a consumer or other non health 
professional which refers to a patient aged 4 years.
A 4 years old patient of unknown sex had been exposed to the Mucinex Children Cough Liquid Cherry for an 
unknown indication on 24-DEC-2012. Reporter(Unknown) stated that patient was started giving Mucinex Children 
Cough Liquid Cherry last night on 24-DEC-2012 at a dose of 2.5 ml every 6 hours. Patient woke up on the morning 
of 25-DEC-2012 with blood nose.
The reaction was deemed serious by the reporter because it was classed as medically significant due to nose 
bleed.
The reporter's causality for the case is Possible. The reporting consumer or other non health professional's clinical 
assessment for drug CHILDREN'S MUCINEX COUGH CHERRY(Guaifenesin ; Dextromethorphan 
Hydrobromide)is as follows: serious; with a relatedness of Possible. 
The company's assessment for the case is possible and unlisted.
No further information was available at the time of report.
Case outcome: Unknown.
Report No 2 received from US Consumer Relations, Date 26-DEC-2012, Reference no: C242104140.
Information Added / Updated:
Outcome for Events and Case has been updated to: Recovered / Resolved.
Action taken with the Suspect Drug: Drug Withdrawn.
Dechallenge Added: Yes.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 11 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The reporter (parent) reported that the product was discontinued. Child has not had any more nosebleeds. 
The reaction was deemed serious by the reporter because it was classed as medically significant due to nose 
bleed.
The reporter's causality for the case was Possible. The reporting consumer or other non health professional's 
clinical assessment for drug CHILDREN'S MUCINEX COUGH CHERRY(Guaifenesin ; Dextromethorphan 
Hydrobromide)is as follows: serious; with a relatedness of Possible. 
The company's assessment for the case is possible and unlisted.
No further information was available at the time of report.
Case outcome: Recovered / Resolved.
Reporter Assessment Narrative: The reporter's causality for the case is Possible. The reporting consumer or other 
non health professional's clinical assessment for drug CHILDREN'S MUCINEX COUGH CHERRY 
(GUAIFENESIN)[Guaifenesin] is as follows: serious; with a relatedness of Possible. The reporting consumer or 
other non health professional's clinical assessment for drug CHILDREN'S MUCINEX COUGH CHERRY 
(DEXTROMETHORPHAN HYDROBROMIDE) [Dextromethorphan hydrobromide] is as follows: serious; with a 
relatedness of Possible.
01-MAR-2016 : Case downgrade from serious to non serious during ongoing benefit risk assessment,  cases was 
reviewed and re-evaluated by the internal  consumer safety review panel as non serious 01 03 2016