Report No 1 received from US Consumer Relations, Date 01-JAN-2013, Reference No: C342171590.
Suspect drug: Mucinex Children Cough Liquid Cherry (Guaifenesin, Dextromethorphan hydrobromide).
Dosing: Single dose of 2.5 ml.
Case reference number US-RB-048131-13 is a spontaneous case report sent by a consumer or other non health 
professional which refers to a male aged 2 years.
The reporter (grandfather) stated that he gave his 2 years old grandson a single dose of 2.5ml of Mucinex Children 
Cough Liquid Cherry on 01-JAN-2013 for an unknown indication and then just realized that the product was not 
recommended for children under the age of 4 years of age. Reporter stated that the patient had bloody mucous in 
his nose. Patent was also taking an unknown Natural Cough Syrup.
Medical history: Cold.
The reaction was deemed serious by the reporter because it was classed as an other medically significant due to 
bloody mucous in nose.
The reporter's causality for the case is Possible. The reporting consumer or other non health professional's clinical 
assessment for drug Mucinex Children Cough Liquid Cherry (Guaifenesin, Dextromethorphan hydrobromide) is as 
follows: serious; with a relatedness of Possible. 
The company's assessment for the case was possible and unlisted.
No further information was available at the time of report.
Case outcome: Not Recovered / Not Resolved.
Report No. 2 received from US Consumer Relations, Date 02-JAN-2013, Reference No: C342171590.
Information added/Updated:
Case and event outcome changed to Recovered / Resolved.
Reporter (Grandfather) stated patient was doing fine now. They noticed some heavy blood when he blew his nose 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 15 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
two times in a row and then one additional time lighter in blood. They contacted the local poison control and his 
doctor were told he did not need to be brought in.
The reporter's causality for the case is Possible. The reporting consumer or other non health professional's clinical 
assessment for drug Mucinex Children Cough Liquid Cherry (Guaifenesin, Dextromethorphan hydrobromide) is as 
follows: serious; with a relatedness of Possible. 
The company's assessment for the case was possible and unlisted.
No further information was available at the time of report.
Case outcome: Recovered / Resolved
Reporter Assessment Narrative: The reporter's causality for the case is Possible. The reporting consumer or other 
non health professional's clinical assessment for drug MUCINEX CHILDREN COUGH LIQUID CHERRY 
(GUAIFENESIN)[Guaifenesin] is as follows: serious; with a relatedness of Possible. The reporting consumer or 
other non health professional's clinical assessment for drug MUCINEX CHILDREN COUGH LIQUID CHERRY 
(DEXTROMETHORPHAN HYDROBROMIDE)[Dextromethorphan hydrobromide] is as follows: serious; with a 
relatedness of Possible.
01-MAR-2016 : Case downgrade from serious to non serious during ongoing benefit risk assessment,  cases was 
reviewed and re-evaluated by the internal  consumer safety review panel as non serious 01 03 2016