This case was reported by a lawyer and described the occurrence of birth defect in a female neonate who was 
exposed in utero to Paroxetine hydrochloride (Paxil). The mother received Paroxetine hydrochloride during 
unspecified trimester(s) of pregnancy for an unknown drug indication. A physician or other health care professional 
has not verified this report.
On an unknown date, the mother started Paroxetine hydrochloride, to which the patient was exposed via placenta. 
At an unknown time after starting Paroxetine hydrochloride, the mother gave birth to the patient, who experienced 
an unspecified birth defect(s). At the time of reporting, the outcome of the events was unknown.
Follow up information was received on 12 March 2008 via fact sheets completed by the patient's parent(s) and the 
reporting attorney. Maternal history included multiple pregnancy losses due to "high risk" pregnancies. The mother 
received Paxil 20 mg once daily from 1999 to 2003 for treatment of depression. The mother smoked 5 cigarettes 
per day from 2002 to 2003. The female patient was born on (b) (6)  at 42 weeks gestation. In March 
2003, she was diagnosed with aortic valvular stenosis and ventricular septal defect (VSD). On(b) (6)  she 
underwent VSD closure with patch augmentation of the ascending aorta and an aortic valvotomy. On (b) (6)
she underwent a "Ross/ Konno procedure". It was anticipated that she would require future surgery to repair the 
leaky valve, and again "after adulthood to replace the pulmonary valve". Medications included enalapril and 
lisinopril.
Follow up information was also received on 12 March 2008 via medical records, which confirmed that the mother 
was receiving Paxil 20 mg daily on 26 July 2002 and on 27 January 2003. On (b) (6)  she was pregnant with 
a due date of 10 February 2003, and had "cut down her smoking from two packs a day to half pack a day. She was 
working on stopping". Paxil 20 mg daily was refilled on that date. On 27 January 2003, she reported that depression
and fatigue were improved on Paxil. The mother was hospitalized for induction of labor on (b) (6)
because of post-date pregnancy. The patient was born on (b) (6)  via vacuum assisted delivery with a 
birth weight of 9 pounds 2 ounces. She was born with aortic stenosis and a large VSD. On (b) (6)  she 
underwent surgical closure of the VSD and an aortic valvotomy. As her ventricular function recovered and she 
grew, significant valvular aortic stenosis was also detected. On (b) (6)  she underwent a Ross/ Konno 
procedure that was complicated by a bacterial infection (enterococcus) with presumed endocarditis, requiring 6 
weeks of intravenous antibiotics. She was evaluated by her cardiologist on 23 April 2004 for follow up of complex 
congenital heart disease (CHD) that was "diagnosed a little later than average", at approximately six weeks of age. 
Most recent echocardiogram (echo) on 18 May 2007 showed moderate to severe pulmonary insufficiency with only 
mild right heart enlargement, mild neoaortic insufficiency and left ventricular dimensions that were at the upper 
limits of normal. At the time of examination in May 2007, the patient was doing quite well with appropriate 
development, and she continued enalapril without difficulty. A chest x-ray demonstrated an increased heart size at 
55 percent of the thoracic diameter, and echo findings showed mild aortic insufficiency that was unchanged from 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 7 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
October 2003, as well as unopposed pulmonary insufficiency, mild enlargement of the right atrium and right 
ventricle. No pulmonary or aortic stenoses nor residual VSD were detected. The cardiologist expressed some 
concern about her blood pressure but noted that he had been normal on a number of previous occasions.
Follow up information was received on 20 May 2008 via the legal complaint, which alleged that the mother received 
Paxil 20 mg tablets during unspecified trimester(s) of pregnancy for treatment of depression. The patient was born 
on (b) (6)  and was diagnosed with aortic valvular stenosis, VSD and other unspecified "congenital 
malformations or defects".
Follow up information was received on 27 August 2008 via medical records.  The patient had a follow up cardiology 
visit on 26 February 2008. An electrocardiogram showed a change which was identified to be right ventricular 
hypertrophy. Echo showed trivial aortic valve insufficiency, mild degree of aortic valve stenosis, normal left to right 
ventricular performance, and patent aortic arch, with no re-coarctation. There was mild to moderate degree of 
dilatation of the more distal transverse aorta and aortic isthmus.  The patient will be followed closely.
Follow up information was received on 08 October 2008 via medical records. The patient was exposed prenatally to
tobacco and marijuana. She was born at 41 weeks gestation. Examination showed a grade III/VI systolic murmur 
heard over the entire precordium, and a chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with small lung volumes, and she was 
then diagnosed with critical aortic stenosis by echo. The patient was hospitalized on (b) (6)  with critical 
aortic stenosis/ annular valvular and supravalvular stenosis, nonrestrictive muscular VSD, mild mitral valve 
hypoplasia with single papillary muscle, mild hypoplasia of the aortic valve without discrete coarctation, patent 
foramen ovale, congestive heart failure (CHF), pulmonary hypertension, and failure to thrive. Post procedure, she 
was transferred to the pediatric intensive care unit. A trans-esophageal echo on (b) (6)  showed severe 
aortic stenosis status post valvotomy, mild to moderate aortic insufficiency, VSD status post patch closure, and 
depressed left ventricular function with generalized hypokinesis. Secondary chest closure was performed on (b)(6)  
 On (b) (6)  echo findings included bicuspid aortic valve with mild residual aortic stenosis and 
severe aortic valve insufficiency, dilated left ventricle "that seemed to contract well at this time", moderate to severe
biventricular hypertrophy, and mild to moderate isthmal aortic arch hypoplasia. She was discharged on (b) (6)  
 or (b) (6)  on digoxin, amoxicillin, Captopril, Lasix, and Zantac. She was re-hospitalized, and on (b) (6)
 she underwent a Ross Procedure. Medications included Nipride, dopamine, and Lasix. She underwent chest 
closure on (b) (6)
Follow up information was received on 15 October 2008 via medical records. At birth, the patient had blow-by-
oxygen for approximately 30 seconds with stimulation with Apgar scores of eight at one and nine at five minutes. 
The patient was hospitalized on (b) (6)  She was noted to have poor weight gain. She began experiencing 
tachypnea with respiratory rates up to 72 breaths per minute and poor feeding with emesis two to three times per 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 8 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
day for the past two days prior to admission. A chest x-ray showed "pulmonary hypoplasia." The patient was then 
transferred to another facility for failure to thrive and respiratory distress. She had intercostals and subcostal 
retractions at times with occasional nasal flaring. A chest x-ray on admission showed gross cardiomegaly with 
increased pulmonary vascular markings bilaterally. An echo showed severe biventricular function, severe valvular 
aortic stenosis, narrow arch without discrete coarctation, a pressure restrictive patent foramen ovale (all left to right 
suggesting left atrial hypertension), and bidirectional VSD. The patient was treated with normal saline bolus, Lasix, 
and a low dose Dopamine infusion. She did not tolerate the treatment, oxygen saturations dropped to 80 percent 
and she experienced increased tachycardia poor perfusion and hypotension. The patient returned back to baseline 
after Dopamine was discontinued. It was then determined that she would need surgical intervention. The patient 
was intubated for stability and transferred to another facility. On (b) (6)  she was tachypneic with occasional 
retractions while asleep. On 06 June 2003, an echo showed a thickened and dysplastic aortic valve, severe aortic 
stenosis, moderate aortic regurgitation, moderate left ventricular hypertrophy, and mild to moderate right ventricular
hypertrophy. The patient had significant progression of her overall aortic stenosis. On (b) (6)  a limited echo 
showed a mildly improved left ventricular function. The patient was hospitalized from (b) (6)  until (b) (6)  
 Home medications included Captopril, Lasix, ranitidine, ampicillin, Gentamycin. Chest x-ray showed 
cardiomegaly with prominent pulmonary vascular markings. The patient was given packed red blood cells shortly 
after admission. Cardiology was consulted for management of her CHF. Captopril was increased. The left 
ventricular function was still mildly depressed according to an echo. Captopril was changed to enalapril. Another 
echo showed mildly depressed left ventricular function, mild aortic regurgitation, mild to moderate pulmonary 
regurgitation, a small coronary to left ventricular outflow tract fistula, and mild tricuspid regurgitation. The patient 
was discharged after a four week course of intravenous antibiotics for possible endocarditis. Discharge medications
included Furosemide, Enalapril, and Ranitidine. On 19 September 2003, furosemide was discontinued, ranitidine 
was continued, and enalapril was increased. On 24 October 2003, an echo showed mild aortic insufficiency, mild-
to-moderate pulmonary insufficiency, and no pulmonary stenosis. On 09 December 2003, it was noted that the 
patient had a urinary tract infection that was detected when she underwent her first heart surgery in (b) (6)
She also had grade II vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) to the right kidney. She was placed on prophylactic amoxicillin 
until she underwent her second heart surgery in (b) (6)  On (b) (6)  the patient developed enterococci 
sepsis attributed to an endocarditis, and she was treated with ampicillin and Gentamycin for about four weeks. She 
was transferred to another hospital for completion of antibiotic therapy. During that hospitalization, she developed 
anemia and possibly CHF.  She was then transferred to another hospital for a blood transfusion and close 
monitoring. On 09 November 2005, an echo showed mild aortic regurgitation, an acceleration of flow in the 
proximal descending thoracic aorta, moderate to severe pulmonary regurgitation, diastolic flow reversal in to the 
branch pulmonary arteries, and moderate right ventricular enlargement. On 26 April 2006, an echo showed mild 
central aortic insufficiency, unopposed pulmonary insufficiency through her conduit, and very mild valvular pulmonic
stenosis. The patient had "conduit dysfunction" so often seen after a Ross procedure.
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 9 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Follow-up information was received on 12 March 2013 via medical records. Office notes in February 2013 provided 
a summary of the congenital heart disease and treatment. The patient had VSD and critical aortic stenosis with 
hypoplastic aortic valve annulus associated with supravalvular aortic stenosis, diffusely small arch and abnormal 
mitral valve with pulmonary hypertension, diagnosed at age 5 weeks. On (b) (6)  she underwent aortic 
valvotomy with repair of supraventricular aortic stenosis, homograft augmentation of the ascending aorta and 
transverse arch, and VSD closure. Subsequently, she had progressive aortic stenosis with resultant re-operation. 
During the Ross-Konno procedure on (b) (6)  the aortic valve was replaced with a pulmonary autograft and 
the pulmonary valve with a 16 mm pulmonary homograft. Secondary chest closure was done within 48 hours with 
subsequent Enterococcus endocarditis. Afterward, the patient had residual low moderate neoaortic insufficiency 
and moderate pulmonary homograft insufficiency.
Follow-up information was received on 19 March 2013 via medical records. Mother was receiving disability since 
2001 for chronic depression and possible fetal alcohol syndrome with cognitive and emotional difficulties. Her 
pregnancy history was discrepant. She reported numerous early spontaneous miscarriages then reported 
numerous abortions. The mother was evaluated in the emergency room (ER) on 28 August 2002 at approximately 
17 weeks pregnant. She presented with periumbilical abdominal cramping and suprapubic cramping and was 
concerned because she had numerous abortions. ER notes indicated she was: gravid 10; para 1; abortions 8. 
Current medication included Paxil and prenatal vitamins. She was diagnosed with probable colic and given Tylenol. 
The mother presented for subsequent delivery on(b) (6)  At that time, she reported an obstetrical 
history of gravida 3 para 2 with live births in 1997 and (b) (6)  She also reported smoking 2 and a half 
packs of cigarettes daily and a history of drinking 12 beers daily. She had been sober for 2 years.
The following information was received on 19 June 2013 via medical records:  Per cardiology on 28 December 
2009, the patient was stable from cardiac standpoint but required close follow up due to multiple valves involved.
The patient had residual mild to moderate aortic insufficiency, moderate to severe homograft insufficiency with mild 
pulmonic stenosis, mild mitral valve abnormality and insufficiency and systemic hypertension of uncertain etiology.
As of follow up on 02 April 2013, the patient continued to be stable from a cardiac standpoint.
Follow-up information was received on 12 February 2015 via medical records. The patient was hospitalized from (b)(6)
 to (b) (6)  with respiratory distress. Patient's discharge diagnosis included severe biventricular 
dysfunction.
The following information was received on 29 January 2015 via legal complaint. The patient diagnosis included 
persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn and right ventricle outflow tract.
Follow up information was received on 19 January 2016 via medical records. An echocardiogram done on 06 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:35 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 10 of 517
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
January 2014, showed neoaortic valve with a small tail segment of the right coronary cusp.