AER number 1217921, is an non interventional study case, received on 23/Apr/2013, from a healthcare 
professional and concerns a male patient (patient number: f unspecified age who experienced a cardiac 
disorder hil enrolled in Study 
The patient's medical history included diabetes mellitus, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD), hyperlipidaemia and coronary artery disease. No concomitant medication or past drugs were reported. 
On an unspecified date, the patient started bevacizumab for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (Dose, form, 
frequency and route not reported). On giralla, he experienced a cardiac disorder which led to hospitalisation. 
The outcome of event cardiac disorder was unknown. It was not reported whether therapy with bevacizumab was 
ongoing or not. 
The causality of event cardiac disorder with bevacizumab was unknown. 
No further information was provided. 
Additional information received on 26/Apr/2013. 
Reporter details were added. 
The patient's concurrent conditions included bone metastasis. He was taking zoledronic acid, granisetron 
hydrochloride, dexamethasone, folate sodium, and cyanocobalamin concomitantly. 
On 19/Apr/2013, treatment commenced with intravenous bevacizumab 550 mg once everyillitlays, intravenous 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 565 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
carboplatin 650 mg once every days, and intravenous pemetrexed disodium 971 mg once every edays. On 
allillinhe developed cardiac disorder (previously reported: 
At the time of report therapy with bevacizumab, carboplatin, and pemetrexed disodium was ongoing. 
The reporter assessed the causal relationship of cardiac disorder with bevacizumab, carboplatin, and pemetrexed 
disodium as unknown. 
No further information was provided. 
Additional information was received on 10/May/2013. 
The event term cardiac disorder amended to non ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (life threatening). 
Later, the bevacizumab was permanently discontinued. On1111111.111 the patient recovered and event non ST 
segment elevation myocardial infarction was resolved. 
The reporter assessed causality for event non ST segment elevation myocardial infarction with bevacizumab as 
unknown. 
No further information was provided. 
Additional information was received on 21/May/2013. 
Lot No. for bevacizumab was updated (Lot No:B7102B10). 
On 19/Apr/2013, therapy with bevacizumab was stopped. 
No further information was provided. 
Additional information was received on 23/May/2013. 
Positive family history of myocardial infarction (Brother at age of 50). Concurrent conditions included bone 
metastasis, nicotine abuse, peripheral arterial occlusion disease, aortic stenosis, bronchial carcinoma, adrenal 
gland metastasis, pulmonary metastasis. concomitant medications included ibuprofen and insulin detemir. 
On 15/Mar/2013, Chest CT scan showed metastatic bronchial carcinoma, right,lowe r lobe (S8). Histology showed 
NSCLC G3, cT3, cN2-3, cM1 (lung, lymph nodes, bone, and adrenal glands), suspected second tumour of left 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 566 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
upper lobe, pleura involvement and pericard effusion. Cranial CT scan detected nothing abnormal. Cranial MRI 
was not carried out due to claustrophobia. 03/Apr/2013, Bronchoscopy with right lower lobe biopsy sample showed 
NSCLC. Thepatient was not compliant. 
On the patient presented with clear signs of cardiac decompensation. Treatment with diuretics was 
started which lead to persisting re-compensation and diuretic doses could be reduced during the clinical course. 
Potassium substitution with Kalinor ret 3 DF per day was also started. He was transferred to another hospital for 
further investigation/treatment. Chest X-ray showed signs of pronounced lung congestion, global heart 
enlargement, no clear evidence of pneumonia. Coronary angiography with PICA revealed a 3 vessel coronary 
artery disease and BM stent was placed in the left coronary artery. Treatment with long term Aspirin 100 mg once 
per day and Ticagrelor 90 mg twice per day for six months was started. Chest CT scan ruled out lung embolism. 
Avastin, Carboplatin and Pemetrexed were permanently discontinued in response to the events. On 
the patient developed diarrhoea. On , Pneumonia was suspected in view of increasing infection 
parameters and treatment with Piperacillin/Tazobactam was started for 10 days. During the clinical course, 
pneumonia was not confirmed. 0n1111111111. the patient was transferred back to the initial hospital. ECG on 
admission after transfer showed sinus rhythm, heart rate of 86 bpm, left axis, right bundle branch block and left 
anterior hemi block. During hospitalisation, he presented with recurrent hypertensive episodes. Antihypertensive 
medication was adjusted following which blood pressure could be stabilized. Blood gas analysis showed p02 83 
mmHg, pCO2 35.4 mmHg, pH 7.45, Base excess 0.2, cHCO3 23.9 mmo1/1 and 02 saturation 99.4%. Treatment 
with Ibuprofen for chronic back pain due to thoracic (T10) and lumbar (L4) metastases was replaced with MST 10 
mg twice per day following which pain improved. On Echocardiography showed slight reduced 
systolic left ventricle function (EF Simpson biplane 43 o , as ypokinesia and hypo- to a-kinesia of the middle 
and apical parts of the lateral and posterior wall, early signs of reduced systolic right ventricular function ((TAPSE 
13-14 mm), slight enlarged left atrium, borderline enlarged and hypertrophic left ventricle, aortic valve stenosis 
without relevance, slight mitral and pulmonary valve insufficiency, physiologic tricuspid valve insufficiency, slight 
pericard effusion (approx. 150 ml) without hemodynamic relevance, and incomplete collapse of the inferior vena 
cava on inspiration. 0 , urinary tract infection (UTI) was suspected. Pronounced leucopenia with a 
nadir of 600/microlitre was iagnosed. Additional antibiotic treatment with Levofloxacin was given for 3 days. Blood 
tests also revealed decreasing thrombocytes, increased liver function tests and increased LDH. Stool culture was 
negative for clostridium difficile and diarrhoea was improving. During the clinical course, leucopenia and 
thrombocytopenia improved slowly. On abdominal ultrasound scan showed enlarged gall ducts with 
gall bladder hydrops of unclear origin, an suspecte (chronic) micturation flow disorder. Chest X-ray showed clear 
global heart enlargement (21/34) and slight aortic sclerosis, but no effusion, congestion, or pneumonia. ENT 
consultation showed discrete veracious vocal cord leucoplaquia left more than right, suspected oral candidiasis, 
rhinitis sicca, but sinusitis was ruled out. Acute laryngitis was diagnosed and treated conservatively. Oral 
candidiasis was treated with Moronal suspension 1 DF four times per day. On Repeat 
echocardiography showed slight regressing pericardial effusion, very slight reduce e ventricular function, left 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 567 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
ventricle hypertrophy with clear diastolic disorder and no signs of right hypertrophy strain. Abdominal ultrasound 
scan was also performed, results pending. On OEM the condition of the patient had improved and he was 
discharged home. 
At the time of report no outcome was provided for increased liver function tests, increased LDH, urinary tract 
infection or acute laryngits. 
The reporter did not provide any seriousness criteria or drug relationship for 3-vessel coronary artery disease, 
suspected pneumonia, hypertensive episodes, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, increased liver function tests, 
increased LDH, diarrhoea, urinary tract infection, vocal cord leucoplaquia, oral candidiasis and acute laryngits with 
bevacizumab and carboplatin. 
The hospital physician did not provide the causal relation of 3-vessel coronary artery disease, increased liver 
function tests, increased LDH, diarrhoea, vocal cord leucoplaquia and with pemetrexed. 
The hospital physician considered the causal relationship for hypertensive episodes, leucopenia and 
thrombocytopenia with infections (UTI) as related to bevacizumab and for leucopenia and thrombocytopenia with 
infections (UTI) as also related to carboplatin and pemetrexed. The hospital physician assessed oral candidiasis as 
unrelated to pemetrexed. 
The company assessed hypertensive episodes and 3-vessel coronary artery disease as medically significant. 
No further information was provided. 
Additional information was received on 24/Jun/2013. 
The patient medical history included adenocarcinoma. No history of thromboembolic events but as known risk 
factors for thromboembolic events hypertension, dyslipidaemia (hyperlipidaemia), insulin dependent diabetes 
mellitus and COPD were given. Concomitant medications included insulin and lercanidipine hydrochloride. 
His diagnosis of myocardial infraction (NSTEMI) was confirmed by dyspnoea as a clinical symptom, by coronary 
angiography and as laboratory testing such as platelet count, hemoglobin, haematocrit (no values provided) as 
diagnosis methods. His myocardial infraction was treated by stent placement in left circumflex artery, stent type was 
bare metal. 
No further information was provided 
Additional information was received on 06/Feb/2014. 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 568 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
On, he developed acute pneumonia from which he consequently died on the same day. 
The reporter considered the causality for fatal acute pneumonia as not related to bevacizumab. 
No'further information was provided 
Additional information was received on 16/Jul/2014. 
It was unknown whether or not an autopsy was performed after the patient's death. 
Event/ Drug relationship for bevacizumab and acute pneumonia was changed from not related to related. The event 
was assessed as not related to the use of pemetrexed (Alimta) and carboplatin 
No further information was provided.