This Is a spontaneous report from a contactable nurse. 
A 47-year-old male patient of unspecified ethnicity received cisplatin (trade name unspecified) and pemetrexed 
(trade name unspecified), both for 4 cycles at unspecified doses from an unspecified date to Apr2011, for non-small 
cell lung cancer stage IIIB / adenocarcinoma (lung adenocarcinoma). 
The patient's medical history included never smoking, childhood asthma, depression and patient performance 
status (PS) of 0. On an unknown date, prior to starting cisplatin, the patient presented with 6 month history of 
cough, wheeze, shortness of breath (SOB) on exertion and weight loss. In Jun2010, attended GP with cough and 
SOB and was treated for asthma. In Nov2010, symptoms not improving the patient was referred to chest clinic. A 
chest X-ray s o loss of volume, right side and RML collapse and a CT scan, suspicious of right lung 
malignancy. The patient was diagnosed non small cell lung cancer stage IIIB and adenocarcinoma. The patient was 
referred to Psycho-Oncology team Jan2011 and had chemotherapy with cisplatin/pemetrexed per 4 cycles, 
completed Apr2011. The patient responded to treatment. 
On an unknown date, pulmonary embolism (PE) was found on post treatment CT. The patient was commenced on 
Dalteparin. 
At review in Jan2012, after 1 year, the patient was feeling well, continued to be anxious, declined further input from 
psycho-oncologist after two sessions and was supported by Lung Cancer Nurse Specialist (LCNS) and community 
nurse. The patient had returned to work on part time basis. His weight increased by 10 kg (thinking of dieting). On 
an unspecified date, anticoagulation therapy was discontinued. A Computed Tomography scan in Mar2012 
confirmed progression of disease and also right pleural effusion. The patient had reported increased shortness of 
breath (SOB) and had recurrent chest infection. On an unspecified date, he was admitted for drainage of effusion. 
Fluid sent tolaborat  was EML4-ALK transtocation positive. The patient was enrolled into J  
and in Apr2012 commenced treatment. On 10May2012, the 
patient esented with fatigue, diarrhoea, SOB, anxiety. He received oxygen therapy (02) at home. On 
he was admitted over the weekend with increased SOB. CT confirmed PE and Dalteparin was re 
started. At the time of the report the patient was clinically less well, his appetite was poor and he had a poor 
prognosis. An application had been made for compassionate use of Crizotinib. The outcome of the events was 
unknown. 
No follow-up attempts possible. No further information expected. 
print Time; 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 100  of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
Follow-up (13May2013): New information from the same contactable nurse includes updated medical history, new 
events anxious, weight increased, progression of disease, right pleural effusion, increased shortness of breath, and 
recurrent chest infection added, patient's clinical course and status after chemotherapy (enrolled into MARQUEE 
Study and then application made for compassionate use of crizotinib). 
No follow-up attempts possible. No further information expected. 
Follow-up (16May2013): New information received from a contactable nurse based on information received by 
Pfizer from Strides, license partner for cisplatin. The regulatory authority report number is GB-MHRA-ADR 
No follow-up attempts possible. No further information expected. 
Follow-up (26May2013): This is a follow-up report from a contactable nurse via the United-Kingdom Medicines and 
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (Regulatory reference number: 22113422) based on information received 
by Pfizer from Teva (manufacturer control number 4073821SR) license party for cisplatin. 
New information reported includes Teva comment: event possibly related to cisplatin and to underlying cancer. 
Because this is a spontaneous case, regulatory distribution will be handled as though it is a related case. 
Follow-up (30May2013): This is a follow-up report based on information received by Pfizer from Teva (manufacturer 
control number 407382ISR) license party for cisplatin. 
New information reported includes Teva comment: All adverse events possibly related to cisplatin in combination 
with advanced cancer.