MEDICALLY SIGNIFICANT
A neurologist reported via sales representative that a 27-year-old female patient on TYSABRI infusions 
(natalizumab, 300 mg, IV, QM) for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS)  from May 2009 to 14 Mar 2013 
was admitted to the hospital on (b) (6)  for suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
Symptoms were impairment of  fine motor skills in her left hand. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed
(date not reported) and was typical for PML. On (b) (6)  cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was taken and tested for 
JC-virus in the laboratory (b) (6)  JCV PCR test in  (CSF) was negative. 
Treatment included plasma exchange (PLEX) since (b) (6)
Medical history included RRMS since Feb 2008. Previous medication included Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) from 
Feb 2008 to Mar 2009.  Concomitant medication was not reported. The patient had been tested positive for anti-JC 
virus antibodies in Aug 2011. 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 125 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The neurologist assessed the suspected PML as related to TYSABRI therapy. TYSABRI was permanently 
discontinued.
Update 03 Apr 2013: A professor for neurology from the university hospital reported that the patient had been 
admitted for PML therapy. He confirmed that CSF had been tested and was always normal. However, MRI findings 
were typical for PML.
Update 06 May 2013: Follow-up received from the neurologist provided the following additional information: The 
patient had received a total of 46 TYSABRI infusions; the last infusion was administered on (b) (6)  The first 
symptoms of PML were noted around the 23 Feb 2013. In the further course the symptoms had first improved but 
on (b) (6)  worsened again. On (b) (6)  and MRI was performed and compared to an MRI dated 15 Nov 
2012 (prior to first PML symptoms). On 15 Nov 2012, MRI showed these findings: Cerebrospinal fluid spaces of 
normal size. No sign of alteration of the grey matter. Several ovoid T2-lesions were seen periventricular and in the 
radiation of the corpus callosum, some of them are also juxtacortical and at the lower border of the corpus callosum
and only a few are infratentorial. These findings had already been seen in a previous scan on 07 Oct 2011. On 15 
Nov 2012, there were three new lesions: two in the precentral gyrus and one in the supramarginal gyrus. No 
contrast enhancement. No diffusion disorder. The findings were typical for MS. On (b) (6)  the MRI showed 
the following: there was neither any evidence of space-occupying effects nor of cortical brain defects. Apart from 
the known ovoid T2 hyperintensities in the white matter predominantly in the radiation of the corpus callosum, there 
are new extended T2-hyperintensities which are located in the right central and in the upper parietal lobe involving 
the U-fibers. These show a T2-shine-through on diffusion weighted images, but no restriction of diffusion. No 
contrast enhancement. These findings were assessed as highly suspect of PML. 
The neurologist confirmed that JCV PCR in CSF had been performed at the (b) (6)
 twice. No JCV DNA could be detected. A CSF sample had also been sent to (b) (6)  by the treating 
professor for neurology. The reporting neurologist did not know the result. Brain biopsy had neither been performed
nor planned.
Update 01 Aug 2013: The neurologist reported via a company field force that a third cerebrospinal fluid JC-virus 
test performed at the (b) (6)  was positive (date of test or number of 
JCV DNA compies not provided). The patient experienced immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS), 
which started 4 weeks after plasmapheresis (onset date not otherwise specified). The patient was currently at a 
rehabilitation facility. At the time of this report (date not otherwise specified) patient's Karnofsky index was 80. The 
neurologist did not assess the causal relationship between TYSABRI and IRIS.
Update 06 Aug 2013: Upon internal review, Biogen Idec considers this case to be confirmed for PML based on CSF
positive for JCV-DNA, and compatible MRI findings and clinical symptoms.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 126 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 14 Oct 2013: The neurologist submitted via the company field force a Confirmed PML data collection form 
(DCF) with following information: the patient?s functional status was assessed in May 2009 (prior to starting 
TYSABRI) with estimated Karnofsky score 100 (normal no complaints, no evidence of disease) and estimated 
Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score 2.0. In Feb 2013 (on TYSABRI prior to PML) estimated Karnofsky 
score was 100 and EDSS was 2.0 and in(b) (6)  (at time of PML diagnosis) estimated Karnofsky score was 80 
(normal activity with effort, some signs or symptoms of disease) and EDSS was 3.5.
The results of JCV DNA tests in CSF performed at the (b) (6)  on (b) (6)  and(b) (6)  
(b) (6)  were negative for both samples. On 29 May 2013, the test was positive with 52 copies/ml. As reported 
previously and assumed by the company, this test had also been performed at the (b) (6)
Blood JCV DNA test was positive (not otherwise specified) on unknown date. The patient had not yet recovered 
from PML and was suffering from paresis left hand. She was currently living at home.
Update 10 Apr 2014: Additional information was received from the Professor of Neurology via a PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive and residing at home. After 2 stays at a rehabilitation center, the outcome is 
very favorable. The patient is very well and is undergoing progressive reintegration. The patient is currently on 
Tecfidera (dimethyl fumarate; start date unknown) for her MS. Current Karnofsky score and EDSS were not 
reported. In a separate communication (email), the patient's treating neurologist reported that he has had no further
contact with the patient and was therefore unable to provide any additional follow-up.
Update 23 Apr 2014: A report was received via the literature. Warnke C, von Geldern G, Markwerth P, Dehmel T, 
et al. The CSF antibody index for diagnosis of natalizumab-associated PML. Annals of Neurology. Doi: 
10.1002/ana.24153. The authors conducted a retrospective study and concluded that the CSF JCV antibody index 
(AI-JCV) could be an additional tool in the diagnostic workup for PML and recommended that it be included in the 
case definition of natalizumab-associated PML. The patient's CSF JCV antibody index was 1.03 and CSF JCV DNA
was 52 copies/mL. 
Update 20 Nov 2014: Information was received via the literature: Warnke C., Stettner M., Lehmensick V., et al. 
Natalizumab exerts a suppressive effect on surrogates of B cell function in blood and CSF. Multiple Sclerosis 
Journal.  Published online 12 November 2014.  The authors aimed to assess the effect of natalizumab on cellular 
composition and functional B cell parameters including 37 patients with natalizumab-associated PML.  IgG levels in 
blood and CSF were available from the 37 patients, of which 20 were first sampled at time of diagnosis as defined 
by a first positive PCR for JCV DNA in CSF.  Patients with natalizumab-associated PML were 28-63 years old 
(average 45), 68% were female, and the treatment duration was 19-75 months (average 44).  The authors 
concluded that natalizumab impacts B and T cell distribution and exerts an inhibitory effect on surrogates of B cell 
function in periphery and in cerebrospinal fluid, potentially contributing to the increased risk of developing PML.
This case refers to one of the 37 patients with natalizumab-associated PML.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 127 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information