Medically Significant
A neurologist reported, via a TYSABRI Prescribing Program Form (Discontinuation Questionnaire), that a female 
patient, currently 60 years of age, on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple Sclerosis from 13 Jun 2007 to 04 Apr 
2013 and enrolled in a Biogen Idec sponsored marketing program of Monitored Therapy came under investigation 
for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) (onset unknown).  At the time of this report, the TOUCH 
database indicated that the patient had received a total of 63 doses of TYSABRI from 13 Jun 2007 to 04 Apr 2013.
The patient is enrolled in (b) (6)  and tested positive for anti-JCV antibodies in Dec 2011.  The patient was 
first diagnosed with MS in 1987.  Prior MS therapy included Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) from Jan 2006 to Mar 
2007.   No testing or treatment for the event of suspected PML was reported and the outcome is unknown.  The 
causality for the event of suspected PML was not assessed.  TYSABRI therapy was discontinued.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 130 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Preferred Term ( MedDRA  Version: 17.1 ReC
Update 14 May 2013:  The neurologist spontaneously reported, via a Biogen Idec Medical Science Liaison (MSL), 
that the patient had "confirmed PML" characterized by confusion, unsteady gait, clumsiness, difficulty speaking, and
right facial droop.  The onset of symptoms was reported as Jan 2013 and the neurologist reported that PML was 
confirmed on 08 May 2013.  Testing included an MRI in Mar 2013 that was negative for PML, a spinal tap in Mar 
2013 that was negative for PML, an MRI in Apr 2013 that showed a small T2 hyperintensity lesion, and MRI on 03 
May 2013 that showed an increase in the T2 hyperintensity lesion, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) test from 08 May 
2013 that was positive for JCV DNA on polymerase chain reaction (PCR) at 655 copies/mL (name of lab used 
unknown).  The neurologist did not report specific treatment for the event but stated that they were following the 
(b) (6)  protocol.  The event is ongoing and the neurologist assessed causality as related.  TYSABRI 
therapy has been withdrawn.
15 May 2013:  The following information was reported via the provision of medical records.  The patient tested 
positive for anti-JCV antibodies on 20 Dec 2010 and on 13 Dec 2011.  Prior MS therapies included Copaxone and 
AVONEX.  In a clinic note from 20 Feb 2013 the patient reported that she had developed a right facial droop and 
dysarthria (onsets unknown) and was hospitalized (dates of hospitalization not reported) and treated with steroids 
(NOS).  The patient was worked up for a stroke during the admission but this was ruled out.  The patient tried 
APMYRA (dates of therapy unknown) but experienced little improvement.  Concomitant medications included 
aspirin, Fosamax (alendronate), Pepcid (famotidine), AMPYRA, Deltasone (prednisone), Advil (ibuprofen), Lexapro 
(escitalopram), Wellbutrin XL (bupropion), multivitamins with fluoride, vitamin C (ascorbic acid), calcium, Provigil 
(modafinil), Prempro (estrogen/ progesterone), and Celebrex (celecoxib).  At the time of the office visit the patient's 
cranial nerve function was normal, extraocular movements were normal, no dysarthria was present, no abnormal 
motor movement was noted, the patient had decreased sensation to vibration on lower extremities bilaterally, 
Romberg's sign was present, all other studies were normal.  At the end of the visit multiple sclerosis was assessed 
as in remission, the dysarthria was possibly thought to be a psychological reaction, Wellbutrin dose was increased, 
and AMPYRA was placed on hold.  Per a hospital admission note from (b) (6)  the patient initially presented 
at the end of Jan [2013] (presumed in reference to clinic visit on 20 Feb 2013) with a right facial droop.  Since that 
time the patient reported that her symptoms had "gone downhill" characterized by increasing weakness in hands, 
difficulty with fine motor skills, and feeling more clumsy than usual.  At baseline the patient was able to ambulate 
with a cane, but reports that she feels her gait has been unsteady.  A lumbar puncture (LP) from 07 Mar 2013 was 
negative for JCV (presumed JCV DNA) ((b) (6)  lower level of detection 50 copies/ mL); the CSF was 
also significant for a CSF protein of 40.8 (reference range 7 to 35).  The patient's last TYSABRI infusion was on 04 
Apr 2013.  An MRI done 02 Apr 2013 showed multiple cerebral white matter lesions, not changed significantly in 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 131 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
size or appearance (compared to MRI from 28 Jan 2013), right thalamic lesion, new since prior MRI, questionable 
new lesion in the left posterolateral aspect of the medulla, no abnormal enhancing lesions, no restricted diffusion..
An MRI from 03 May 2013 showed interval increase in the hyperintensity as well as subtle hyperintensity of the 
bilateral precentral gyri and right insula, possibly PML.  A second LP was done on 08 May 2013 and the CSF was 
positive for JCV DNA at 655 copies/ mL ((b) (6) ); the CSF analysis was also significant for a high 
CSF protein at 42.6 mg/dL (reference range 7 to 35), a CSF red blood cell (RBC) count of 9 (reference range 0), 
and a lymphocyte of 62% (reference range not reported) .  The patient's past medical and surgical history included 
depression, relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) since 1987, and a cholecystectomy.  The patient's cranial
nerve exam on (b) (6)  was normal except for  a bilateral end gaze nystagmus on cranial nerves III, IV, and 
VI, abnormal facial sensation (diminished on right over V2 and V3) on cranial nerve V, and bilateral (right more than
left) lower facial droop on cranial nerve VII.  The patient's motor exam was normal except for a downward drift, 
present bilaterally, abnormal tone (increased) bilaterally in lower extremities, and a slight twitching of inferior portion
of orbicularis oculi muscles bilaterally (right > left) and twitching of right cheek when attempting to smile.  The 
sensory exam was normal except for diminished vibration in lower extremities bilaterally.  Coordination test was 
normal except for abnormal gait and abnormal Romberg.  Other testing from (b) (6)  included a complete 
blood count (CBC), which was normal, and a complete metabolic panel (CMP), which was normal.  Treatment on 
hospital admission, for the event of suspected PML, included Keppra (levetiracetam) for seizure prophylaxis, 
Remeron (mirtazapine), maraviroc, and mefloquine.  The neurologist assessed the patient's current Karnofsky 
score as 80.  At the time of this report the patient remains hospitalized, and additional information is expected.
Update 21 May 2013:  Biogen Idec considers this case to be confirmed for PML based on positive CSF, MRI 
findings, and clinical symptoms.
Update 29 Jan 2014: In response to a request for follow up information, a research study manager from the 
neurologist?s office reported that the patient is alive and residing at home. Current Karnofsky and EDSS scores 
were not available.  A brain MRI was performed on 10 Oct 2013 with results reported as follows: interval decrease 
in size of the confluent T2 signal abnormality involving bilateral subinsular white matter, deep and subcortical white 
matter of bilateral frontoparietal lobes (noted to most likely represent PML).  An interval increase in size of focal 
demyelinating plaques in the juxtacortical white matter of the right frontal and parietal lobes was noted.  An interval 
increase in size of the demyelinating lesions in bilateral periatrial white matter was also noted.  Gyriform foci of T1 
hyperintensity in susceptibility signal loss involving bilateral precentral gyri, parasagittal frontal lobes, right posterior 
insula in the right parietal opercular region. Susceptibility signal loss was also noted in bilateral posterior lentiform 
nuclei, stated to be possibly related to increased iron deposition. The reporter noted there were no clinical or 
radiologic signs of IRIS. The outcome of the event of PML and causality to TYSABRI were not provided.
Update 12 Sep 2014: Information was received via a poster presented at the 2014 Joint Annual Meeting of the 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 132 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Americas Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ACTRIMS) and the European Committee 
for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ECTRIMS), Boston, MA. Stefoski D, Balabanov R, Ko M, Strong 
J, Hernandez C, Muth C, Mercurio M, Javed A (September 2014). Fifteen non-fatal outcomes in natalizumab-
associated PML/IRIS: the effects of early diagnosis and evolving novel therapeutic approaches. The authors 
reported 15 patients with MS with PML occurring after 14-70 months of natalizumab treatments as well as 2 
additional PML patients in early phases of treatment and recovery.  Patient 13 refers to a 60 year old female (age 
discrepant).  The patient was on TYSABRl for 5.5 years and was previously on glatiramer acetate.  She presented 
with dysphagia and was diagnosed with PML after 3 months.  The patient's MRI was negative for PML, but it was 
noted that the patient received corticosteroids (NOS) prior to diagnosis.  The patient's CSF was positive for JCV 
DNA at 645 copies/ mL.  The patient developed IRIS at 3 weeks.  An MRI showed faint Gd enhancement and 
expansion of PML.  The patient did not undergo plasma exchange (PLEX).  Treatment included filgastrim and 
maraviroc.  The patient is still recovering from PML, residual symptoms include gait ataxia, dysarthria, seizures, 
and dystonia.  The patient's current EDSS is 6.5 and current Karnofsky score is 50; it was noted that this is 
markedly worse.  The patient is currently residing at home and is dependent.  A corresponding abstract (P858) was 
published in the Multiple Sclerosis Journal 20 (S2) 2014. Retrieved from msj.sagepub.com.