Medically Significant
A neurologist reported that a male patient currently 45 years old on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple 
Sclerosis since 19 Nov 2009 was admitted on (b) (6)  due to LE [lower extremity] weakness and spasticity 
(onset unknown) after her last infusion.  The patient was diagnosed with LE cellulitis (onset unknown) as well as felt
the patient experienced an MS exacerbation (onset unknown) in the setting of the LE cellulitis.  The patient was 
treated with IV [intravenous] Vanco[mycin] and IVMP for 5 days.  After completion of the IV steroids the patient was 
transitioned to oral steroids (NOS).  The patient's symptoms returned, which prompted the suspicion of PML.  The 
patient was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to an unknown date for PML (onset unknown).  The patient was 
diagnosed with MS in 1998.  Prior therapies included Rebif (interferon beta-1a) and Novantrone (Mitoxantrone).
Medical history included: relapse progressive MS, neurogenic bowel and bladder, depression, spasticity of legs, 
Vitamin D deficiency, gastric esophageal reflux, restless legs syndrome, allergic rhinitis, deep venous thrombosis of
bilateral lower extremities, chronic pain secondary to spasticity, and obstructive apnea.  Concomitant medications 
were reported as Vitamin D 10,000 units every day, Amitiza (lubiprostone) 24 mg every day, Cymbalta (duloxetine) 
30 mg every day, Abilify (aripiprazole) 5 mg every day, Neurontin (Gabapentin) 300 mg BID, Zantac (ranitidine) 150 
mg QHS, Flonase (fluticasone nasal) nasal spray each nostril every day, Mirapex (pramipexole) 1 mg every day, 
Lasix (furosemide) 40 mg every day, Plavix (clopidogrel) 75 mg every day, Potassium 30 Meq every day and 
Coumadin (warfarin) 5 mg every day.  Both CSF and serum samples tested positive for JCV on an unknown test 
date.  (b) (6)  testing on (b) (6)  the JC virus DNA ultrasensitive quantitative real time PCR was 545 copies/mL
(reference range <50 copies/mL) and on an unknown test date the patient tested for <500 copies/mL for JC 
polyoma virus DNA, quantitative real-time PCR, plasma (reference range <500 copies/mL).   The nurse stated this 
information confirmed the PML.  On(b) (6)  the patient had  brain MRI with and without contrast that showed 
T2 hyperintense signal scattered in the supra as well as in the infratentorial compartment consistent with the 
patient's known history of multiple sclerosis.  There is a somewhat confluent area of hyperintense signal in the right 
superior frontal cortical and subcortical white matter region without surrounding edema or abnormal enhancement.
There are no prior studies for comparison.  The patient's symptoms and history of medication for multiple sclerosis 
PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy) needs to be excluded.  The patient had a magnetic resonance 
imaging [MRI] study of the cervical spine with and without contrast on (b) (6)  that showed severely motion 
limited; however, the inversion recovery demonstrated abnormal signal toward the cervical cord without 
enhancement.  Because of the patient's age, these are most likely due to multiple sclerosis.  Clinical correlation and
follow-up examination is suggested.  Multilevel degenerative spinal stenosis and neural foramina narrowing as 
previously discussed.  The patient is currently in the hospital.  The nurse reported that the patient is considering 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 137 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
PLEX treatment.  The patient is currently wheelchair bound, but has improved mobility with the use of TYSABRI.  In
Dec 2012 the patient had evidence of MRSA and required 21 days of vancomycin.  The patient does have baseline 
spasticity in the lower extremities and had a baclofen pump (onset Dec 2012) placed while on TYSABRI therapy.  It 
was noted that the patient develop cellulitis as well as bilateral lower extremity DVTs (onset unknown); these events
occured at the same time point as baclofen pump placement Currently the patient is therapeutic with his Coumadin 
and has had an IVC filter placed.  At the time of this report the TOUCH database indicated that the patient received 
a total of 42 doses of TYSABRI from 19 Nov 2009 to 01 May 2013. The patient tested positive for JCV titer on 16 
Oct 2011.  The patient is enrolled in (b) (6)   The outcome for the event PML is unknown. The causality for the 
event of PML was assessed as possibly related.  It is unknown if TYSABRI treatment is ongoing.
Update 15 May 2013: An infusion site nurse reported that the patient was "feeling great" two days ago, but 
developed "some symptoms" on (b) (6)  and was admitted to the hospital on (b) (6) .  The reported 
stated that the patient was diagnosed with PML.  The outcome and causality were not reported.  TYSABRI was 
discontinued.
Update 21 May 2013: Upon internal review this case has been assessed to be confirmed for PML based on positive
CSF, MRI findings and clinical symptoms.
Update 12 Aug 2013:  The neurologist reported the patient is "somewhat stable" with some "significant residual 
impairments".  No further information was reported.
Update 04 Dec 2013:  The neurologist re-reported the patient has PML. The patient was tested in Jul 2013 for anti-
JCV antibodies.  No further information was reported.
Update 03 Apr 2014: Additional information was received from a registered nurse from the neurologist's office via a 
MS Standardized PML Data Collection Tool and diagnostic reports. The patient is alive, residing in a nursing home, 
and is not currently on any MS therapy. A brain MRI was performed on 28 Jan 2014 with results reported as 
follows: persistent T2 hyperintensity with volume loss involving the right frontoparietal periventricular region 
extending to cortical surface representing chronic changes with gliosis showing mild progression since prior exam. 
No evidence of acute restriction on diffusion weighted images to suggest acute infarct. Scattered T2 hyperintense 
foci on bilateral periventricular and subcortical white matter as well as in the cerebellar hemispheres, grossly 
unchanged from prior exam likely representing changes of chronic demyelination or microvascular disease. No 
midline shift. Post-contrast images show no abnormal enhancement. A chest x-ray was performed on 22 Jan 2014 
showed interval development of the airspace opacity in the left lower lobe suggesting focal pneumonia or 
atelectasis. A brain MRI was performed on 27 Aug 2013 (results not provided). The patient?s estimated Karnofsky 
scores were assessed as follows: prior to starting TYSABRI (date unknown) to be 40 (disabled; requires special 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 138 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
care and assistance); on 15 Apr 2013 to be 50 (requires considerable assistance and frequent medical care); while 
on TYSABRI prior to PML (date unspecified) to be 60 (requires occasional assistance, but is able to care for most 
of his personal needs); on (b) (6)  to be 30 (severely disabled; hospital admission is indicated although death 
not imminent); at time of PML diagnosis (date unspecified) to be 40; and on (b) (6)  to be 20 (very sick; 
hospital admission necessary; active supportive treatment necessary). The patient has not been diagnosed with 
IRIS. No additional lumbar punctures have been performed. The patient has not recovered from PML. Causality for 
the event was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 02 Sep 2014: Additional information was received from a neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive, is currently in an intensive care unit, and is on Rebif (started Oct 2013) for 
preventative MS therapy. Regarding the patient?s current clinical status, the neurologist reported the patient has 
severe spasticity of the left arm, greater than left leg, and has no use of this arm. The patient has 2+ strength in left 
leg, 5+ strength in right arm, and 4+ strength in his right lower extremity. He is confined to a wheelchair. 
Additionally, he was diagnosed with urosepsis with aspergillus and candidiasis on an unspecified date. On 09 Jul 
2014, the neurologist assessed the patient?s estimated Karnofsky score as 40 (disabled; requires special care and 
assistance) and estimated EDSS score as 8.5. The most recent brain MRI was performed on 03 Jul 2014 with 
results reported as follows: no essential interval change from 28 Jan 2014. Mild to moderate generalized brain 
atrophy more prominently involving the upper cerebral convexities. Moderately extensive signal hyperintensity 
consistent with gliosis involving the right frontoparietal paraventricular white matter and centrum semiovale with 
commensurate ex-vacuodilation of the posterior frontal horn and body of the right lateral ventricle. Several 
additional nonspecific foci of signal hyperintensity involving periventricular and subcortical white matter and centrum
semiovale both cerebral hemispheres with key differential considerations including demyelinating disease versus 
ischemic foci of microvascular occlusive disease. Additional MRI reports from the following dates were also 
received: 06 May 2014 (previously reported), 04 May 2014 (previously reported), 24 Jul 2012, 11 Mar 2006, 08 Aug 
2004, and 07 Oct 2003. The patient has not recovered from PML and has recovered from IRIS (event of IRIS 
discrepant from previous report). Causality for the events of PML and IRIS was assessed as related to TYSABRI.