This is a spontaneous report by a nurse with supplemental information from a consumer in the USA of heart failure 
patient was born with, congestion, increased irritability, intermittent emesis, occasional cough, 'inconsolable 
fussiness, 'peritonitis, fatal heart transplant failure, fatal septic shock and fatal multiple causes in a 7 month old 
female patient coincident with Dianeal PD4 Ambuflex (DIANEAL LOW CALCIUM) and Dianeal PD2 Ambuflex 
(DIANEAL PD2) therapies, 
SUSPECT PRODUCT DETAILS: On an unreported date, the patient began treatment with Dianeal PD2 Ambuflex 
1.5% therapy (dose, frequency, and lot number not reported) and on an unknown date in Nov2012, the patient 
began treatment with Dianeal PD2 Ambuflex 2.5% therapy (110 ml fill volume, 40 cycles for 20 hours to a total fill 
volume of 4400 ml daily, and lot number unknown) intraperitoneally (IP) for renal failure. Dianeal therapy was 
ongoing. 
EVENT DETAILS: During a call, the following was reported. On imumi the patient was born with heart failure 
and kidney failure. The patient had many medical problems since birth and was in the hospital from Minn to 
OMNI On an unreported date, the patient visited the emergency dialysis (ED) unit for DKr being clogged with 
medication and underwent replacement for the same. On MOM the patient again was seen in the ED unit for 
congestion and emesis. On an unreported date, kidney-ureter-bladder (KUB) and chest X-Ray (CSR) were 
performed and the results were unremarkable. On 06May2013, the patient was seen in the cardiology clinic where 
it was noted that the patient had increased irritability and intermittent emesis, but the patients heart allograft 
function was satisfactory. The ECG and echo revealed unchanged heart function with an ejection fraction (EF) of 
53%. The patient denied any fever, upper respiratory (LIR) symptoms. gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms except for 
occasional cough. The patient had been tolerating her feeds very well and there was no change in her behavior. 
The patient had tried bathing, rocking, swing, music, bouncer, holding and swaddling. The clonidine dose was 
increased by 10 mcgikg/day/. OnJ ill I the patient was hospitalized for inconsolable fussiness (onset date not reported). The review of the II,2I1ratory system revealed positive for dry cough, the cardiovascular 
system revealed no chest pain, and the endocrine system revealed positive for growth delay, abnormal weight gain, 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM if a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 161 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
and abnormal stature. The physical examination revealed blood pressure as 96159 (units not specified), pulse as 
144 (units not specified), temperature of 36.9 degree Celsius/ 98.4 degree Fahrenheit (rectal), respiratory rate of 58 
(units not specified), weight of 5.38 kg (11pound, 13.8 oz), and oxygen saturation (Sp02) of 96%. The neck 
showed decreased range of motion, pulmonary/ chest examination showed Broviac in left upper chest. There was 
no increased work of breathing, lung sounds were clear to auscultation bilaterally. The cardiovascular examination 
revealed active precordium with PMI at apex. There was a regular rate and rhythm, single S1 and S2, no murmur, 
click, rubs, or gallop. The radial and pedal pulses were + 2 bilaterally. Capillary refill was less than 3 seconds. The 
abdomen was soft, rounded, non-tender, non-distended, no masses or organomegaly. There were normoactive 
bowel sounds x 4 quadrants. The liver edge was palpable 1 cm below RCM. The PD catheter was in place. The 
musculoskeletal system showed decreased range of motion of all extremities symmetrically. The hematocrit value 
was 49.2 %, white blood cell (WBC) count was elevated (20.2 thousand/mm3) which could indicate a line infection, 
sodium level was 133 mmol/L, potassium level was 4.3 mmol/L, urea nitrogen was 24 mg/dL and creatinine was 
2.03 mg/dL. Treatment was not reported. On an unknown date, the patient was discharged. 
OUTCOME: Not reported. 
MEDICAL HISTORY: Renal failure, seizures, stroke, hypoplastic left heart syndrome h oplastic left 
ventricle. mitral atresia, aortic atresia, cardiac surgery and heart transplant and 
extracorporeal circulation  and left ventricular assist device LVAD (present sinc 
and tunnelled venous cathiercielment End stage renal disease (ESRD), cardiac disease, cardiac 
failure 
CONCOMITANT THERAPY: Acetaminophen, Aspirin, Polycitra-K, Bicitra, Catapres, Neoral, Benadryl, Fer-in-sol, 
Procrit, Carnitor, magnesium sulfate, Poly-Vi-sol, CellCept, Protonix, and Orapred. 
CAUSALITY ASSESSMENT: Not reported. 
FOLLOW-UP INFORMATION (18Jun2013): 
Follow-up information was received from a nurse. Adverse event information, suspect product details, medical 
history, patient's demographic (age), and causality were added or revised. The event of heart failure patient was 
born with was added. Dianeal PD2 Ambuflex (4.25%) was added. 
SUSPECT PRODUCT DETAILS: On an unreported date in 2012, the patient began treatment with Dianeal PD2 
Ambuflex 1.5% and 4.25% therapy (doses, frequencies, and lot numbers not reported) IP for renal failure. Dianeal 
therapies were ongoing. As per the nurse, the patient uses cycler solution and it varies between strengths. 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 162 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
EVENT DETAILS: On 41.1111111111previously reported as MEOW the patient was born with heart failure and 
kidney failure. On 4.1.1111 the patient was hospitalized due to heart failure the patient was born with. Treatment 
was not reported. The patient was still in the hospital. 
OUTCOME: Recovering- heart failure patient was born with. 
MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension. 
CAUSALITY ASSESSMENT: Unrelated- heart failure patient was born with. 
FOLLOW-UP INFORMATION (25Jun2013): 
Follow-up information was received from a nurse. Adverse event information, suspect product details and causality 
were added or revised. The events of fatal heart transplant failure, fatal septic shock and fatal multiple causes 
were added. Dianeal PD4 Ambuflex (2.5%) was added as suspect product. 
SUSPECT PRODUCT DETAILS: On an unreported date, the patient began treatment with Dianeal PD4 Ambuflex 
therapy (dose, frequency and lot number not reported) intraperitoneally (IP) for peritoneal dialysis (PD). Dianeal 
PD4 Ambuflex therapy was ongoing until the time of death. 
EVENT DETAILS: ongth e patient died due to heart transplant failure, septic shock, and other multiple 
causes (onset dates and treatment not reported). 
OUTCOME; Fatal (date of death- Cause of death- heart transplant failure, septic shock and multiple 
causes. Autopsy- It was not reporte l an au opsy was performed. 
CAUSALITY: Unrelated- fatal heart transplant failure, fatal septic shock and fatal multiple causes. 
FOLLOW-UP INFORMATION (05Aug2013): 
Follow-up information was received from consumer. Adverse event information, patient demographics (age) and 
causality were added or revised. The event of peritonitis was added. 
EVENT DETAILS: On an unreported date, the patient experienced peritonitis. The cause of peritonitis was 
unknown. Treatment was not reported. Per consumer, the cause of death was related to patient having peritonitis. 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM Jf a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 163 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
OUTCOME: Peritonitis: Not reported . 
CAUSALITY ASSESSMENT: Peritonitis: Not reported.