A currently 36 year old female patient on TYSABRI (300 mg, IV, QM) for Multiple Sclerosis since 13 Mar 2007 and 
enrolled in a Biogen Idec sponsored marketing program of Monitored Therapy reported having speech problems 
(onset unknown).  Treatment was not reported and the outcome is ongoing.  Causality was not assessed.
TYSABRI therapy continues.
Update 04 Jun 2013:  The female patient on TYSABRI reported difficulty with speech, difficulty with voice, slow to 
speak and slurred speech (onsets unknown).  Treatments were not reported.  The outcome for the events difficulty 
with speech and difficulty with voice is ongoing.  The outcome for the events slow to speak and slurred speech is 
unknown.  Causality was not assessed.  TYSABRI therapy continues.
Update 12 Jun 2013: The neurologist spontaneously reported via a Biogen Idec employee that PML is suspected 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 152 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Preferred Term ( MedDRA  Version: 17.0 ReC
(onset unknown) based on the previously reported event of slurred speech. Additionally, an MRI (date unknown) 
showed new lesions. A lumbar puncture (LP) will be performed. The event of suspected PML characterized by 
slurred speech and new lesions on MRI is ongoing. Causality for the event is unknown. At the time of this report, 
the TOUCH database indicated that the patient received a total of 68 doses of TYSABRI from 13 Mar 2007 to 19 
Apr 2013. TYSABRI therapy continues. 
Update 17 Jun 2013: In response to an outbound call to the patient's new neurologist (patient recently moved out of
state), an office representative reported that the patient was initially diagnosed with MS in Oct 2003 and was 
enrolled in (b) (6)  In Aug 2012, the patient was JCV antibody positive. Prior MS therapy included Avonex 
(interferon beta-1a). The patient was seen in the office on 13 Jun 2013 at which time the LP was performed and the
sample was sent to (b) (6)  and(b) (6)  for analysis. Reports for two brain MRIs, dated 10 Apr 2013 and 12 Jun 2013, 
were provided with the following impressions. The 10 Apr 2013 MRI with and without contrast revealed multiple 
periventricular and subcortical white matter lesions; a few of the lesions demonstrate some increased diffusion 
signal such as a left periventricular lesion and a left basal ganglia lesion, a posterior right frontal lobe lesion, and a 
posterior left parietal lobe lesion; none of these lesions demonstrate enhancement or mass effect; although the 
lesions were noted as not classic for MS,  underlying demyelination was favored, differential includes connective 
tissue disorders.  The 12 Jun 2013 brain MRI without contrast revealed a diffusion hyperintense lesion in the left 
basal ganglia as well as 2 lesions in the left centrum semiovale which correspond to T2 spine through which are 
also diffusion positive; multiple periventricular white matter lesions; lesions noted within the basal ganglia, right 
thalami and left brachium pontis. When compared to the previous MRI, the lesion within the left posterior lentiform 
nucleus is more conspicuous; the lesion in the lateral left frontal subcortical white matter and a second lesion along 
the periventricular margin in the L centrum semiovale are new compared to the previous exam. At the time of this 
report, the patient was at home. 
Update 17 Jun 2013: Additional medical records were received from the patient's previous neurologist including 
reports for two MRIs which were performed on 02 Aug 2011 and 23 Mar 2013. The 02 Aug 2011 brain MRI without 
contrast revealed re-demonstration of multiple white matter lesions in the periventricular zones, deep white matter,
and subcortical U fibers as well as along the posterior lateral margin of the right mid brain at the base of the 
cerebral peduncle and in the left cerebellar peduncle complex; stable since prior exam on 06 Dec 2010 with no new
lesions or significant change in existing lesions. The 23 Mar 2013 brain MRI without contrast revealed the following:
Compared to 27 Aug 2012, new patchy high signal lesions involving the left posterior putamen and along the 
periventricular white matter lateral to the body of the right lateral ventricle. The overall supratentorial and 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 153 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
infratentorial white matter lesion burden remains mild in degree; the appearance and distribution is consistent with 
the patient's history of MS; no findings to suggest PML.
Update 18 Jul 2013: Additional information was provided by the nurse from the office of the patient's previous 
neurologist. The patient is experiencing symptoms and is currently hospitalized due to PML. The nurse confirmed 
that the patient has been tested to confirm that she has PML. No other information was provided.
Update 22 Jul 2013: The patient's previous neurologist reported via a TOUCH Prescribing Program Form that the 
patient was diagnosed with PML and TYSABRI therapy was discontinued (last dose = 19 Apr 2013 per TOUCH 
dosing). Additionally, the patient tested positive in May 2013 for the presence of anti-JCV antibodies.
Update 30 Jul 2013: Additional information was received via email from the nurse from the office of the patient's 
current neurologist. According to the current neurologist, the diagnosis of PML has now been confirmed for the 
patient. Additionally, the patient's sister reported via email that the patient's previous neurologist called her to 
confirm the diagnosis of PML. The patient's sister is seeking the opinion of the patient's current neurologist 
regarding treatment for the patient.
Update 30 Jul 2013: Biogen Idec now considers this case to be high suspect for PML based on clnical symptoms 
and MRI findings.
Update 07 Aug 2013: Additional information was received via email from the office of the patient's current 
neurologist. Since the patient can not function anymore, the patient's mother is now the patient's legal 
representative.
Update 29 Aug 2013 and 05 Sep 2013: In response to a request for additional information, a registered nurse from 
the current neurologist?s office reported via medical records and diagnostic reports that the patient was recently 
diagnosed with natalizumab-associated PML in Jun 2013 by CSF serology, but the patient had uncharacteristically 
exhibited symptoms as early as Apr 2013 before serology and imaging abnormalities were detected. Medical history
includes asthma, chronic sinusitis, seasonal allergies, and headache. The patient presented in early August with 
marked multifocal deficits following a rapid decline in her functional status and was re-hospitalized on (b) (6)
She was initially treated with G-CSF for 13 days ((b) (6)  to (b) (6) ) with only a modest response to 
immunostimulation and serial neuroimaging had not demonstrated any significant changes. G-CSF was followed by
IV steroids for IRIS. The patient was treated with 4 doses ((b) (6) ) of rIL-2 with only modest lymphocytic 
response and a repeat MRI again showed no changes with stable appearance of PML lesions. The MRI was 
reported as stable, though perhaps a bit more enhancing. On(b) (6)  an MRI of the brain was done which 
revealed numerous punctuate foci of contrast enhancement throughout both cerebral hemispheres, brain stem and 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 154 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
cerebellar hemispheres. No change in associated ill-defined T2 hyperintensity predominantly involving the 
precentral gyri, insular regions, internal capsules and brain stem. Findings again likely represent PML with immune 
reconstitution inflammatory (PML-IRIS). In comparison to prior MRI studies dated (b) (6)  there is no 
significant interval change and an apparent decrease in enhancement seen in prior MRI study from (b) (6)
which could be due to use of different MRI technique. Stable multiple small discrete demyelinating lesions in the 
cerebral hemispheres elsewhere in this patient with known MS. On (b) (6)  a progress note by the neurologist 
indicated that on patient examination slight left lateral gaze palsy, mild lower left facial paresis on smile, impaired 
tongue movements (cannot protrude fully, slight right deviation), + pseudobulbar dysarthria, anarthria, hypophonia 
and decreased pharynx motility noted. The patient has moderate to severe bilateral upper extremity dysmetria (left 
> right) and resting and postural tremors. Current medications include: ondansetron (ZOFRAN) INJ 4 mg, IV push q
6h prn, polyethylene glycol (MIRALAX) packet 17g PO daily, levetiracetam (KEPPRA) tablet 500 mg PO q12, 
heparin (porcine) INJ 500 units IV flush q12 prn, acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg, PO q6 prn, folic acid 
(FOLVITE) tablet 1mg, PO DAILY, lorazepam (ATIVAN) tablet 1mg, PO nightly and 1mg PO daily PRN, menthol-
phenol (sugar free) CEPESTAT lozenge, 1 lozenge BUCCAL q6 prn, dalteparin (FRAGMIN) 5,000 units SQ daily, 
albuterol HFA (PROAIR HFA) inhaler, 1 puff q4 prn, escitalopram (LEXAPRO) tablet 10mg PO daily and mirtazpine
(REMERON) tablet 15mg, 15 mg PO nightly. The patient had an MRI of the brain on (b) (6)  which (in 
comparison to (b) (6) ) revealed no interval change. Redemonstrated are ill-defined areas of T2/FLAIR 
hyperintense signal in both precentral gyri, coronate radiata, thalami, internal capsules and insula with multiple 
punctuate and linear areas of enhancement scattered in both cerebral, cerebellar hemispheres and brain stem 
likely reflecting PML with immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (PML-IRIS). There are stable multiple 
scattered areas of T2/FLAIR hyperintense signal in supra-and infratentorial brain parenchyma consistent with 
demyelinating plaques with known history of MS. The assessment and plan noted that the patient is now with subtle
worsening of symptoms and signs (worsened speech and new left lateral gaze palsy), likely indicative of IRIS, 
however, the MRI (on (b) (6) ) revealed continued stable appearance. The patient?s anarthria is somewhat 
lessened and the patient is capable of uttering one to two syllables with a severe dysarthric pattern. Transaminitis 
likely secondary to rIL-2 and is now resolved. Dysphagia continues but is less severe and the patient is able to 
tolerate PO under strict aspiration precautions without significant issues. Mefloquine, Maraviroc, and Namenda 
were all discontinued. As there are neither clinical nor MRI evidence of severe IRIS or of expansion of PML or of 
reactivated MS, the patient is to be transferred to an inpatient rehab unit on (b) (6)  to continue aggressive 
PT, OT and ST. An MRI of the brain is to be repeated on 09 Sep 2013 or sooner, if indicated by clinical worsening 
(IRIS). Causality for the events of PML and IRIS was not assessed. Both events are ongoing based on the most 
recent MRI on (b) (6)
Update 03 Sep 2013: Biogen Idec now considers this case to be confirmed for PML based on positive CSF, MRI 
findings, and clinical symptoms.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 155 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 03 Dec 2013: The patient's spouse reported via a Biogen Idec Monitored Therapy Program (social media 
site)  that his wife was diagnosed with PML in May 2013 (onset date discrepant; event previously reported and 
confirmed). Presenting symptoms ((b) (6) )  included impaired speech, muscle spasming, and incoherent. The 
patient is still recovering from PML; motor skills have improved but speech is still "very rough." Consumer causality 
for the event, PML, was not provided. TYSABRI therapy was discontinued in Mar 2013 (date discrepant).
Update 24 Feb 2014: A report was received via the literature. Abstract: A Unique Presentation of Natalizmab-
associated Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy. Best C, Young J, Bhat J.; 51st Annual Meeting of the 
Association of Academic Physiatrists (AAP), Nashville, TN. 24 Feb 2014. New information not previously reported 
consisted of additional symptoms of clinical worsening including episodic vertigo and pseudobulbar crying with 
agitation. The authors noted that the case demonstrates a novel presentation of PML with subtle symptoms 2 
months prior to serology or imaging abnormalities followed by a rapid clinical progression including an unusual 
presentation of anarthria along with other multifocal deficits. The outcome of the events of PML / IRIS were 
reported as ongoing since the patient's abilities to ambulate, vocalize, and swallow are still severely impaired. 
Causality for the event of PML was reported as related to TYSABRI; causality for the event of IRIS was not 
specifically addressed.
Update 10 Mar 2014: A report was received via the literature. Abstract: MR Imaging Trailing Clinical Expression of 
Natalizumab-Associated PML in Multiple Sclerosis: A Rare But Serious Diagnostic and Management Problem. Muth
C, Hernandez C, Stefoski D, Balabanov R, Ko M; 66th Annual Meeting of the American Academy of Neurology 
(AAN); Philadelphia, PA. (meeting scheduled for 26 Apr 2014; abstract release date: 25 Apr 2014). New information
not previously reported consisted of additional symptoms of episodic transient whole body stiffness and involuntary 
movements of the left arm in Mar 2013, six months after the frequency of natalizumab infusions had been 
decreased [new dosing regimen was not specified]. After the patient developed dysarthria and difficulty walking in 
May 2013, IV corticosteroids (previously reported) x 3 days was administered but without improvement. On 13 Jun 
2013, CSF was obtained which showed >180,000 copies/mL of JC virus by PCR thereby establishing the diagnosis 
of PML. Subsequent MRIs showed no evidence of PML until 09 Jul 2013 when a typical confluent fluffy T2/FLAIR 
hyperintensity appeared in the right posterior frontal subcortical white matter. The authors concluded that clinical 
symptoms of PML may precede its appearance on MR imaging. In suspected similar situations, a high index of 
suspicion for PML should be maintained even in the absence of supportive imaging findings - prompting definitive 
investigations (e.g. CSF JC virus PCR testing, or biopsy). Delay in diagnosing PML portends worse prognosis by 
delaying appropriate management. The outcome for the event of PML was not reported. Causality was assessed 
as related to natalizumab.
Update 08 Sep 2014: Follow-up information was received from the neurologist who reported that he could not 
complete the Month 12 Data Collection Form since the patient had not been seen at the clinic in over a year and is 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 156 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
lost to follow-up.
Update 12 Sep 2014: Information was received via a poster presented at the 2014 Joint Annual Meeting of the 
Americas Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ACTRIMS) and the European Committee 
for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ECTRIMS), Boston, MA. Stefoski D, Balabanov R, Ko M, Strong 
J, Hernandez C, Muth C, Mercurio M, Javed A (September 2014). Fifteen non-fatal outcomes in natalizumab-
associated PML/IRIS: the effects of early diagnosis and evolving novel therapeutic approaches. The authors 
reported 15 patients with MS with PML occurring after 14-70 months of natalizumab treatments as well as 2 
additional PML patients in early phases of treatment and recovery. This 34 year old (age discrepant from previous 
reports) female patient was on TYSABRI for 6 years. Previous medications included interferon. The patient 
presented with dysarthria in 2013 and was diagnosed with PML 3 months later. MRI was negative for PML for 4 
months. CSF tested positive for JCV DNA at 180,000 copies/mL. No PLEX was performed and the patient was 
treated with maraviroc. IRIS developed in 3 and 7 weeks confirmed by MRI with expansion of PML [lesions]. 
Treatment for IRIS included filgrastim, interleukin 2, and corticoids (NOS) in early and late stages. The patient has 
not yet recovered from PML. Current EDSS is 6.0, Karnosky is 30, and the patient is markedly worsened. She is 
residing at home but requires semi-dependent care. A corresponding abstract (P858) was published in the Multiple 
Sclerosis Journal 20 (S1) 2014. Retrieved from msj.sagepub.com.