This is a spontaneous report from a contactable attorney by way of Complaint. This is a baby case. This baby's 
mother of an unknown age and ethnicity was prescribed and ingested sertraline (ZOLOFT) and/or generic sertraline 
(manufactured by Greenstone) of an unknown formulation during her pregnancy on an unknown date for an 
unknown indication. The dose and frequency were unknown. The relevant medical history, concomitant 
medications and past drug history were unknown. When the baby was born, he suffered from serious birth defects 
and/or conditions including spina bifida, tethered cord and as well as all other birth defects and/or conditions not yet 
discovered. The relevant lab data was unknown. The action taken with sertraline in response to the events was 
unknown. Because of these birth defects and/or conditions, he underwent surgeries and procedures. As of 
03Jun2013, the clinical outcome of the events was unknown. 
Follow up (15Jul2013): 
This contactable attorney reported by way of Plaintiff Fact Sheet. This 26-year-old mother was prescribed from 
02Apr2003 to 03Mar2011 and took sertraline (ZOLOFT) and/or generic sertraline (manufactured by Greenstone) 
from 02Apr2003 to an unknown date. The mother's relevant medical history included anxiety since 25Mar2003. 
During pregnancy, the mother took ketoconazole (KETOCONAZOLE SHAMPOO), tegaserod (ZELNORM), 
pantoprazole (PROTONIX), ondansetron (ZOFRAN), sulfamethoxazcle, trimethaprim, promethazine tablets, 
hyoscyamine sublingual tablets, metoclopramide, guaifenesin, pseuddephedrine (PSEUDOVENT) capsules, 
azithrornycin (ZITHROMAX), ethinylestradiol, levonorgestrel (TRIPHASIL) tablets, "nutrinate chewable tablets", 
ascorbic acid, biotin, minerals nos, nicotinic acid, retinal, tocopherol, vitamin B nos, vitamin 0 nos (PRENATAL 
VITAMINS) and ketccionazole (NIZORAL SHAMPOO). This male baby was born at 38 weeks of gestational period. 
This pregnancy complication included mild preeciampsia. On 25May2010, this male baby diagnosed with lipoma of 
the filurn terminale and spina bifida occulta with distended colon. baby underwent lumbar 
laminotomy, micro dissection of filum and section of filum to untether cord. As of 15Ju12013, the clinical outcome of 
the events spina bifida occulta, lipoma of the filum terminale and distended colon was unknown.