On 02JUL2013, a report from an Astellas sponsored study was received-from a physician and research coordinator 
on behalf of an investigator regarding an 8 year old Caucasian male who was hospitalized for extrinsic asthma with 
(acute) exacerbation with the use of Protopic (tacrolimus) therapy. Patient number 00570564 was enrolled in an 
open-study, Clinical study number 03-0-161: A prospective pediatric longitudinal evaluation to assess the long-term 
safety of tacrolimus ointment for the treatment of atopic dermatitis (APPLES). Medical history included asthma, hay 
fever, and other unspecified allergies. Concomitant medications were not reported. Historical medications included 
unspecified topical steroids, oral prednisone/steroids, and pimecrolimus. He started tacrolimus ointment 0.03% on 
25APR2007 (actual months of usage was 2) for atopic dermatitis, skin phototype IV-VI, diagnosed in MAR2005 and 
assessed as mild at the time of study enrollment. It was not reported whether or not he was taking tacrolimus at 
the time of the event. On the was hospitalized for extrinsic asthma with (acute) exacerbation. The 
outcome of this event and the action taken with tacrolimus therapy due to this event was not reported. The 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 11 of  328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
reporting investigator assessed the seriousness of the event of extrinsic asthma with (acute) exacerbation as life 
threatening and causing a hospitalization and did not provide a causality assessment of the relationship of the event 
and tacrolimus therapy. No further information was provided. 
Additional information was received 09JUL2013. Family hiStory included asthma and allergies. Concomitant 
medications included albuterol, prednisone, Alvesco (ciclesonide), and Benadryl (diphenhydramine hydrochloride). 
The patient developed a cough, shortness of breath, headaches, chest tightness, and fevers a few days prior to his 
hospitalization. On the day of his hospitalization, his symptoms had worsened to the extent that his mother had 
treated him with an albuterol nebulizer for an hour, upon which he still seemed to be gasping for air. His mother 
also gave him a dose of prednisone, left over from a previous illness, which also failed to improve his shortness of 
breath. He presented to the emergency room (ER) with a temperature of 102 degrees Fahrenheit (F), heart rate 
150 beats per minute (bpm), respiratory rate 25 per minute, and oxygen saturation 86%. Upon examination, he had 
poor air movement bilaterally with some mildly increased work of breathing, mild substernal retractions, no nasal 
flaring, no suprasternal retractions, and some expiratory wheezes diffusely. It was determined that he required 
hospital admission. Prior to his transfer to the floor, he was treated with albuterol, Tyelonol (paracetamol), and 
oxygen therapy. Upon arrival to the floor, his body temperature was 100.9 degrees F and his oxygen saturation was 
90%. A chest x-ray showed diffuse peribronchial thickening and prominent interstitial pattern. which was thought to 
be likely due to viral bronchitisibronchioiltis. He also had abnormal opacity in his right middle lobe which was 
thought to be possibly due to atelectasis or a more localized pneumonia or viral pneumonitis. A nasal culture did not 
isolate methicillin (oxacillin) resistant Staphylococcus aureus and a blood culture showed. no growth. He was treated 
for the event with albuterol, Atrovent (ipratropium bromide), unspecified inhaled, intravenous (IV), and oral steroids, 
magnesium, and high-flow oxygen. His respiratory status improved. On a chest x-ray showed that he 
had improvement in perihilar peribronchial cuffing and presumed underlying air trapping when compared to the 
chest x-ray on11111111111 On he recovered from the event and was discharged from the hospital. 
He was discharged with prescrinlicillesco (ciclesonide}, Symbicort (budesonide, formoterol fumarate), and 
a 5 day course of oral prednisone. On 22JAN2013, a pulmonary function test showed that he had moderately 
severe airflow obstruction with immediate bronchodilator response. On 29JAN2013, testing for cystic fibrosis was 
performed, but results were not provided. No further information was provided. 
Follow up information was received on 30JUL2013 and 02AUG2013. Medical history included multiple allergies 
including seasonal allergies (previously reported as other allergies) and eczema. He started tacrolimus ointment on 
17DEC2009 (previously reported as 25APR2007), actual months of usage was 1 (previously reported as 2), daily 
for atopic dermatitis. His last dose of tacrolimus ointment that was administered prior to the onset of the events 
was 05JAN2010 and he was not using tacrolimus at the time of the events. On 411.1111.110he was hospitalized 
for status asthmaticus (previously reported as extrinsic asthma with [acute] exacerbation), allergic rhinitis, and 
hypoxia. A complete blood count (CBC) with automated differentials and basic metabolic panel performed that day 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 12 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
showed no clinically significant values. A chest x-ray performed that day also showed abnormal opacity in the right 
middle lobe. Treatment also included Atrovent i ratropium), inhaled steroids, intravenous (IV) and oral steroids, 
magnesium and high flow oxygen. On the events of allergic rhinitis and hypoxia also resolved with the 
event of status asthmaticus. Results from the cystic fibrosis test performed on 29JAN2013 came back negative. 
The reporting investigator removed the seriousness criteria of life threatening from the event of status asthmaticus. 
assessed the causality of status asthmaticus, allergic rhinitis, and hypoxia as not related to tacrolimus therapy, and 
provided an alternative etiology of seasonal allergies and eczema for the events. No further information is 
expected.