Initial consumer report received on 3 Jul 2013. This parent reported that her four year old daughter accidentally 
drank Triaminic Night Time Cold & Cough (diphenhydramine, phenylephrine) syrup which was left on the table. The 
dose consumed and indication were unknown. It was unknown if a HCP had recommended the product. A quality 
complaint case (11063115) was created after the consumer reported that the child resistant packaging had failed. 
Therapy with the product was discontinued. Additional information is expected. 
Follow up information received 05 Jul 2013. The consumer reported that her daughter received treatment in the ED 
but was uncertain of what those treatments consisted of; she stated she had IV hookups in her hand. She reported 
that her daughter was still groggy. She clarified that her daughter was on no concurrent medications, had no 
allergies, and had no medical history. Follow up is ongoing with the consumer. 
Follow-up information in the form of QA results received 09 Aug 2013 (Complaint 11063115); Product Evaluation: 
This complaint was submitted with regards to Triaminic Night time Cold & Cough Syrup 4oz., Lot 10106851, 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 168 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
batches 10114271 and 10120417, expiration 31 Mar2014, A consumer stated her four year old daughter was able to 
open the bottle and drink the product. In the follow-up call, the consumer stated the bottle had been opened prior to 
the child gaining access. She also stated the lid didnAt have a child safety feature on it, just a regular twist off and 
the cap was cracked. The consumer indicated that she had thrown out the bottle. The medical aspects of the 
complaint are covered under related Medical Complaint Case 11063099. Lot Trend Analysis report shows there are 
five complaints for this lot; two are for child resistant packaging/cap failed. CRB meeting (2013-07) and daily signals 
were reviewed. Daily signals were triggered on July 18 and July 19, 2013 for CR packaging cap failed. All 
complaints were due to the product recall. No additional actions were required due to the signal. The Manufacturing 
and Packaging orders were reviewed, no anomalies were noted. A retain sample was examined, the CR cap 
functioned properly. The complaint sample was not returned as the consumer stated she threw it away; therefore 
the complaint was not confirmed. A TrackWise search of the lot and batches returned three related records. Refer 
to the Document Review section. Another TrackWise search using key words produced related investigation PR 
112688, see below. Root Cause: Ineffective CR function - PR 112688 was opened due to a complaint received that 
a child had been able to remove a child resistant cap while the tamper evident seal was still attached. This 
deviation investigated the relationship between tamper evident bands and the CR cap function. The tamper evident 
band can generate sufficient downward pressure on the cap to render the child resistant feature ineffective. The 
cap and band can then be removed in one piece and the CR function is disabled. This was not the case in this 
complaint, as the consumer stated the bottle had been opened prior to her 4 year old daughter opening it. No 
manufacturing root causes were determined; the following causes cannot be eliminated: Inadequate re-application 
of the cap by the consumer - Because it had been previously removed, it's not known if the cap had been properly 
reapplied. The consumer stated the bottle Triaminic was being used by a second daughter. There is not enough 
information to determine if the mother or the daughter was the last to close the bottle. Dried syrup in the cap liner 
may have interfered with the CR function A Syrup caught between the inner and outer cap and dries can affect the 
functionality of the CR function, as the two parts will no longer be able to move together. The consumer stated the 
bottle had been opened a couple of months ago. If the bottle had been opened and closed it is possible excess 
syrup may have worked its way between the caps. Without examination of the complaint sample, this cause cannot 
be eliminated. Cracked cap- The consumer did not describe the appearance of the cap, other than it was cracked 
however, if the outer cap is cracked, it can be removed from the inner cap, leaving a simple screw cap (which 
doesn't look like a normal cap), that can easily be removed. A cracked cap may otherwise inhibit proper CR 
functions. It is not known when the cap became cracked. The consumer did not state there never was a CR cap, 
she was reporting the condition of the cap at that time. Actions Taken: Products with the combination of a tamper 
evident seal and a CR cap were recalled,refer to PR 112688. A Class I recall to the consumer level was initiated 
31Jan2013. There are no future plans to manufacture liquid products at the Lincoln site. No additional action is 
required. 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 169 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information