On 02JUL2013 and 08JUL2013, reports from an Astellas sponsored study were received from study coordinator on 
behalf of an investigator regarding a 5-year old African American male who on 07JAN2013 was hospitalized for 
cellulitis with abscess formation of the right wrist, severe eczema, celfulitis of buttocks secondary to eczema 
exacerbation and abscess of buttock with the use of Protopic (tacrolimus) therapy. Patient number as 
enrolled in 
Medical history 
inclue asthma, hay fever, egg allergy, shellfish and shrimp allergy, and iodine allergy. Concomitant medications 
included Xopenex (levosalbutamol hydrochloride), Zyrtec (cetirizine hydrochloride), unspecified eye drops, Cloderm 
(clotrimazole), dexamethasone, hydroxyzine, Pataday (olopatadine hydrochloride), and Benadryl (diphenhydramine 
hydrochloride). Historical medication included oral prednisone/steroids and topical steroids. He started tacrolimus 
ointment 0.1% (off label use for pediatric use), twice daily, on 27JAN2012 (also reported as 27APR2011) (actual 
months of usage was 11) for atopic dermatitis, skin phototype IV-VI, diagnosed in APR2011 and assessed as 
severe at the time of study enrollment. He was using tacrolimus at the time of the events (also reported as not on 
tacrolimus when events occurred) and his last dose administered prior to the onset of the events was 07JAN2013. 
On 1111... he presented to the physician's office with swelling to his right wrist (also reported as left wrist), his 
skin was extremely excoriated, he had some shotty adenopathy, and on his left wrist he had some eczematoid 
changes with thick purulent drainage. He was hospitalized for the events of cellulitis with abscess formation of the 
right wrist and severe eczema. A culture from the drainage from the abscess on his wrist was positive for 
Staphylococcus species. The patient denied a fever. The events were treated with intravenous (IV) clindamycin, IV 
Solu-Medrol (methylprednisolone sodium succinate), Aclovate (alciometasone dipropionate), and Bactroban 
(mupirocin). His skin condition began to improve with the treatment regimen and his excoriations had decreased. 
On111111111111111he was discharged home from the hospital. At the time of hospital discharge, the event of cellulitis 
with abscess formation of the right wrist was resolved and the event of severe eczema was resolving. On 
he presented to the hospital with increased eczema patches and purulent drainage from his buttocks 
t at ad started two days prior. The patient's mother reported that she had been noncompliant with his treatment 
regimen. Upon further examination, he was found to have multiple excoriations with crusting drainage, and his 
buttocks and gluteal area had a 4 x 4 centimeter area of erythema with drainage, He was admitted to the hospital 
with cellulitis of the buttocks secondary to eczema exacerbation with possible eczema herpeticum. Laboratory 
results showed that his skin swabs were negative for herpes simplex virus (HSV) 1 and 2 and that his herpes titers 
were positive, which ruled out the possibility of eczema herpeticum. A culture of his skin was positive for 
Staphylococcus aureus. He was treated with intravenous (IV) Zovirax (acyclovir), IV clindamycin, Temovate 
(clobetasol ropionate) ointment, Cetaphil (soft soap), and seravate lotion. He responded well to treatment and on 
he recovered from the events and was discharged from the hospital with a prescription for oral Bactrim 
su famethoxazole, trimethoprim). No action was taken with tacrolimus therapy as a result of the events. The 
reporting investigator did not assess the causality of the events of cellulitis with abscess formation of the right wrist 
and severe eczema in relation to tacrolimus therapy, and assessed the causality of the events of abscess of 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 106 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
buttotk and cellulitis of buttocks secondary to eczema exacerbation as not related to tacrolimus'therapy. No further 
information was provided. 
Additional information was received 25JUL2013. The investigator confirmed that tacrolimus was being used at the 
time the event occurred. No further information was provided. 
Follow up information was received on 08AUG2013 and 09AUG2013. Medical history included chicken pox and a 
tonsillectomy. On an unreported date, he began taking tacrolimus ointment 0.03% twice daily for his atopic 
dermatitis. He was not using tacrolimus (previously reported as being used) at the time of the event of cellulitis of 
buttocks secondary to eczema exacerbation. On 25JAN2013, a physical exam performed showed normal results, 
No further information was provided.