A report was received via literature stating that a 19-month-old girl who presented with leukocoria of the right eye 
was found to have unilateral group C retinoblastoma (International Classification System). She had a history of 
reactive airway disease but was otherwise healthy and had undergone no prior surgeries. She was not taking any 
medications and had no known allergies. The maternal family history included factor V Leiden mutation, Marfan's 
disease, and asthma. Physical examination showed no appreciable vision loss. 
Treatment with four cycles of intraarterial melphalan resulted in complete tumor remission. The patient was pre-
medicated with aspirin (10 milligram/kilogram) before each procedure to minimize procedure-related intravascular 
thrombus. During the surgery, intravenous heparin (75 units/kilogram) was also given. Each melphalan infusion 
was performed by direct catheterization of the right ophthalmic artery by use of a flow directed technique with a 1.2-
Fr Magic microcatheter (Balt International. Montmorency, France). A transfemoral 4Fr Tempo catheter (Gordis 
Corporation, Bridgewater, New Jersey) placed in the right internal carotid artery was used as a guiding catheter, 
Control angiography was performed before and after each infusion. A total melphalan dose of 3 milligram was 
administered over 30 minutes during each infusion. 
During the first treatment cycle, there was concern that anterograde flow in the ophthalmic artery was partially 
compromised by collateral backflow. Consequently, two sprays of oxymetazoline nasal spray (0.05%) into the right 
nostril were used at the beginning of the second and third cycles. During cycle 2, a brief period of unexplained 
hypotension raised the possibility of an iodine-contrast allergy. Consequently, diphenhydramine (10 milligram) and 
hydrocortisone (10 milligram) were given intravenously during the third cycle. Just before the third cycle, an ocular 
examination with the patient under anesthesia was performed with 2.5% phenylephrine (1 drop for each eye) given 
15 and 30 minutes before the examination. Albuterol (180 milligram) was administered by metered-dose inhaler to 
prevent bronchospasm during the chemotherapy infusion. 
During the third cycle of intraarterial chemotherapy shortly after oxymetazoline was administered, systemic 
hypertension developed (Procedural hypertension) and persisted for most of the procedure. Completion 
angiography after the melphalan infusion showed multifocal spasm of the cortical branches of the right middle and 
anterior cerebral arteries. Retrospective comparison with the initial angiogram (obtained after intranasal 
administration of oxymetazoline, but before intraarterial melphalan), showed a similar but milder pattern of 
vasoconstriction. Several minutes after normalization of the patient's blood pressure, repeat cerebral angiography 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 84 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
showed reyersal of cerebral vasoconstriction (Cerebral vasoconstriction). Subsequent brain magnetic resonance 
imaging was normal without evidence of ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke. The patient remained neurologically 
intact. The fourth cycle was delivered without phenylephrine containing mydriatics, albuterol, diphenhydramine or 
oxymetazoline. Dexamethasone (1 milligram) was given intravenously to prevent treatment-related ocular 
inflammation, and the cycle proceeded without incident. Cerebral angiograms obtained during the course of 
treatment showed no evidence of cerebral vasoconstriction.