A neurologist reported via a field force associate that a patient (identifiers not provided, therefore this case is 
invalid) on TYSABRI (unknown dose, unknown route, unknown frequency) for unknown indication from unknown 
date to unknown date experienced suspicion of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) (onset 
unknown). Treatment was not reported. The outcome for the event suspicion of PML was unknown. Medical history
and concomitant medication was not reported. The causality for the event of suspicion of PML was not reported. It 
is unknown if TYSABRI treatment was ongoing.
Update 09 Jul 2013: The neurologist provided patient identifiers via the field force associate. The patient is female 
and currently 34 years old.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 188 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Update 19 Jul 2013: The treating neurologist from a university hospital provided further information and sent 
discharge letters. The information received indicated that the 33-year-old patient was treated with TYSABRI 
infusion (natalizumab, 300 mg, IV, QM) from Jan 2011 to Jan 2013 for relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis 
(RRMS). Total number of TYSABRI doses was 26. Anti-JCV antibody test was positive in Jul 2011. First symptoms 
of RRMS were seen in 2002 and the diagnosis was established in 2009. The patient received steroids for MS 
relapse in 2009 following therapy with Rebif (interferon beta-1a, 22 mcg) from 2009 to Oct 2010. Further medical 
history included generalized anxiety disorder, recurrent depressive disorder, clindamycin allergy and retrocerebellar 
arachnoid cyst. Concomitant medication comprised venlafaxine (37.5 mg, QD), opipramol (25 mg, QD) and 
ibuprofen (600 mg, TID) for unspecified indications. 
At the beginning of the year 2013, the patient started suffering from a progressive speech disorder and had 
difficulties to commit to memory and to recall things. In Feb 2013 the symptoms acutely worsened and the patient 
was hospitalized in a local hospital. On 05 Feb 2013, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain had been 
done; results were not provided. On (b) (6)  an MRI brain scan showed new lesions consistent with PML (no 
further details were available). The patient was transferred to the university hospital on (b) (6)  due to the 
suspected PML. In addition to above mentioned symptoms the patient described weakness of right hand and leg, 
tingling in left thigh occasionally, and irritability. Neurological examination revealed hemiparesis on the right side as 
well as mild aphasia and dyslexia. On (b) (6)  JC virus (JCV) PCR test in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was 
negative at the local laboratory. The same date, the results of JCV DNA PCR testing in the laboratory of (b) (6)  
(b) (6) showed 7 copies/mL in CSF and 19 copies/mL in serum. Treatment of the PML included Remergil 
(mirtazapine 30 mg, BID), mefloquine (250 mg, QW) and 5 cycles of plasma exchange (PLEX) from (b) (6)
to (b) (6)   The symptoms stabilized and the patient was discharged on (b) (6) .
On(b) (6)  the patient was transferred from a rehabilitation center to the university hospital due to severe 
aphasia, which had worsened during the last days and aggravated right-side hemiparesis, with her right arm 
completely motionless. On (b) (6)  a MRI of the brain was done. In comparison to the scan of 05 Feb 2013, it 
showed clear increase of hyperintense white matter lesions in FLAIR sequence and T2 weighted scans. The 
lesions were mainly located in the left fronto-parietal lobe and there were new lesions in pre-central region and left 
Gyrus precentralis, which were increasing when compared to the previous scan. Also in the left Gyrus postcentralis,
clear T2 signal intensity was detected. Lesions in left temporal lobe had also increased. There were a few 
hyperintense lesions in T2 and FLAIR sequences in the right white matter. Further, there were a few lesions in 
corpus callosum, consistent with MS. No signs of diffusion restriction. Fair contrast enhancement of the lesions in 
the left frontal and left parietal lobe can be seen. All in all, the scan was consistent with PML. On (b) (6)
another MRI scan of the brain showed further progression of PML with notably increased FLAIR signal intensity in 
left fronto-parietal and temporal lobe. On (b) (6)  a brain MRI scan showed T2w white matter lesions left 
parieto-fronto-temporal which had marginally increased in size and e.g. the rim of the left external capsule could 
clearly be seen. Marginal blood-brain-barrier disturbance was detected. All in all, the scans showed a slight 
progression of PML and indicated a beginning Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS). The patient 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 189 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
was treated with Urbason (methylprednisolone, 1000 mg, IV, QD) for five days for IRIS from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)
(b) (6)  followed by oral prednisolone with dose reduction from 80 mg to 40 mg over the time. Although patient?s 
symptoms stabilized, no improvement was seen and hence natalizumab level in blood was tested. Because it was 
approximately 75 per cent, a new cycle of PLEX was started. After the second PLEX, the patient developed fever of
38 degrees Centigrade. On(b) (6)  a chest x-ray was suspicious for pneumonia. A therapy with Tazobac 
(piperacillin/tazobactam, IV) was started. The following day the patient?s condition deteriorated and she developed 
intensifying headache, progredient aphasia and right-side hemiplegia. She was transferred to intensive care unit 
(ICU) for pneumonia treatment. On (b) (6)  a multi-slice CT (MSCT) showed no signs of fresh hemorrhage or
CSF circulation disorder. After the infection had resolved, the patient was treated with a total of 5 cycles of PLEX. 
Upon that, patient?s symptoms improved. On an unknown date in (b) (6)  a JCV PCR test of CSF showed 32 
copies/mL and of serum showed 73 copies/mL. On (b) (6)  a brain MRI scan showed that the lesions in the 
left hemisphere had increased in size and the hyperintensity in T2 weighted and FLAIR sequences was extended to
frontal, occipital and temporal lobes. Also the contrast enhancement had increase and included part of the U fibres. 
In the right parietal and temporal lobes punctate white matter lesions with clear contrast enhancement of the 
borders was seen in T2 and FLAIR sequences. The findings were consistent with IRIS. On an unknown date in (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  a JCV PCR test of CSF showed 96 copies/mL. The patient was discharged in stable condition on (b) (6)  
(b) (6)
On (b) (6)  the patient was transferred from a rehabilitation center to the university hospital for a routine 
check-up.  Patient was still suffering from global aphasia, paresis of right leg has improved and the patient was able
to move the right arm a bit. Neurological examination revealed severe hemiparesis on the right side and 
hemihypesthesia. On (b) (6)  a brain MRI showed significant increase of the size of the white matter lesions 
in both hemispheres in FLAIR sequence, Wallerian degeneration on the left, but no signs of BBB were seen. IRIS 
was considered resolving, but PML flair was suspected. Therefore, a therapy with Celcentri (maraviroc, 300 mg, 
first unknown daily dose, then twice daily) was started. Prednisolone was continued at a decreased dose (15 mg, 
QD, to be further reduced to 10 mg daily). During the hospitalization, the patient experienced a right-sided clonic 
convulsion which resolved spontaneously. Electroencephalogram (EEG) showed a focus in the left fronto-temporal 
lobe without signs of epilepsy. Anticonvulsive treatment with Keppra (levetiracetam, 500 mg, TID) was started. On 
(b) (6)  the patient was transferred back to the rehabilitation center.
Update 30 Jul 2013: Based on an internal review of existing information in the case, Biogen Idec now considers this
case to be a confirmed case of PML.
Update 24 Oct 2013: The treating neurologist from the university hospital reported via standardized data collecting 
tool that in Aug 2013, the test result of the fourth JCV DNA test had been negative. The patient had received a new 
cycle of prednisolone (7.5 mg, PO, QD) for IRIS in Aug 2013. The patient recovered from IRIS on (b) (6)  On 
(b) (6)  CD4 test result had been 2332 /mcL (reference range 450-2000 /mcL). On (b) (6)  patient?s 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 190 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
score on Karnofsky Performance Status Scale was 40 and Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score was 
1.5. The patient did not receive any MS therapy and was living at home at the time of reporting. The patient had not 
yet recovered from PML. Causality between PML and TYSABRI therapy was assessed as related. Causality 
between IRIS and TYSABRI therapy was assessed  ASunrelated. 
The neurologist provided two MRI records. On 31 Jul 2013, brain MRI revealed confluent, widespread lesions in 
FLAIR sequence and T2 weighted scans pronounced on the left. No clear evidence of blood-brain-barrier (BBB) 
disturbance was seen. In comparison to previous scans, there was mild decrease of lesions in size in right parieto-
temporal lobe next to the lateral ventricle in the FLAIR scans. Otherwise, the MRI scan was considered consistent 
with previous scans dated 27 May 2013 with exception of mild improvement in right tempo-parietal lobe. There 
were signs of Wallerian degeneration.
On (b) (6)  a MRI scan was done because the patient had presented with worsening of hemiparesis and 
difficulties in swallowing. The scans were largely unchanged compared to the previous scan from 31 Jul 2013. 
Update 03 Feb 2014: The treating neurologist from a private practice provided Month 12 MS Standardized PML 
Data Collection Tool and confirmed that the patient is alive and lives at home.
The neurologist assessed the subject's functional and performance status as follows: On 24 Jan 2011 (prior to 
starting TYSABRI), the estimated Karnofsky score was 70 (cares for self, unable to carry on normal activity or to do
active work) and the EDSS score was 3. On an unknown date (on TYSABRI prior to PML), the estimated Karnofsky
score was 70 and on 04 Oct 2012, the EDSS score was 2.5. In Feb 2013 (at time of PML diagnosis), the estimated 
Karnofsky score was 80 (normal activity with effort, some signs or symptoms of disease). On 28 Jan 2014, current 
Karnofsky score was 50 (requires considerable assistance and frequent medical care) and EDSS was 7.5. The 
patient was not receiving any MS medication at the time of reporting.
The neurologist also provided a hospital discharge letter summarizing a hospitalization from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  
(b) (6)  The patient was hospitalized due to worsening of her condition with reduced speech production, increased 
weakness of her right arm, memory impairment and frequent swallowing the wrong way. The patient had 
experienced several panic and anxiety attacks in the last time. On admission, the patient presented pronounced 
motor aphasia, ideomotor apraxia and right hemiparesis with right hemihypoesthesia. MRI of brain performed on 10
(b) (6)  did not show any changes compared to the previous examination. The clinical and radiological findings in 
this patient were compatible with ongoing stabilization of PML. Celsentri was recommended to continue unchanged.
Prednisolone dose was reduced to 5 mg QD.
Update 17 Sep 2014: Additional information was received from a neurologist via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool and hospital discharge summary. The patient is alive and is residing at home. The neurologist 
assessed the patient?s estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores on 13 Sep 2014 to be 50 (requires considerable 
assistance and frequent medical care) and 7.5. The patient was admitted to a hospital on (b) (6)  for planned 
FU due to PML (diagnosed in Feb 2013, discrepant date) and status post?IRIS (diagnosed in (b) (6) ).  A brain 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 191 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
MRI was performed on (b) (6)  which revealed known signal alterations consistent with PML involving 
U?fibers, no BBB disruption; findings unchanged in comparison with the previous examination from (b) (6) .  A 
CSF analysis on (b) (6)  was without findings regarding cells, protein, glucose and lactate. CSF JCV PCR test 
returned weak positive (concentration under the quantifiable value of 100 copies per mL).   Since the last 
hospitalization in (b) (6)  the patient had experienced slight improvement of her motor functions and cognition. 
However, aphasia is still ongoing. There had been no new neurological deficits noted in the meantime. She suffered
from headaches and dizziness from time to time. Her complaints and general condition were fluctuating. Since the 
recent time, she had experienced a swallowing disorder with choking that occurred frequently. Neurological 
examination on admission showed that the patient is alert and situational-oriented, significant motor and mild 
sensory aphasia, right hemiparesis more affecting the arm, bradydiadochokinesia on the left, Babinski negative, 
foot clonus on the right, walking and standing possible with ankle brace and only with external help for several 
steps. Most of the time, the patient is wheelchair-bound, hemihypaesthesia and dysaesthesia on the right. There 
was a noticeable difference in temperature between right and left extremities: right leg cold with blue-livid discolored
toes, right arm colder than the left one. Angiological examination was performed due to difference in temperature of
extremities, results were pending. Endoscopic evaluation of swallowing on (b) (6)  revealed paresis of vocal 
folds on the left. Due to stable course of PML, maraviroc dose was reduced to 150 mg BID and prednisolone was 
stopped. Medications on discharge included Delix (ramipril) 5 mg BID, Ferrosanol (ferrous glycine sulfate) QD, 
Keppra (levetiracetam) 1000 mg BID, maraviroc 150 mg BID, Movicol (macrogol), Pantozol (pantoprazole) 40 mg 
QD, Quensyl (hydroxychloroquine) 250 mg QD, Remergil (mirtazapine) 60 mg QD, Sertralin (sertraline) 50 mg QD, 
and Tavor (lorazepam) 0.5 mg TID. The patient has not recovered from PML or IRIS (IRIS previously reported as 
recovered). Causality for the events was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Update 27 Apr 2015: Additional information was received from a neurologist via a Standardized MS PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive, residing at home, and is not currently on another MS therapy. The patient's 
estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores on 09 Apr 2015 were 50 (requires considerable assistance and frequent 
medical care) and 7.5, respectively.  A brain MRI was performed on 13 Oct 2014 with results reported as follows: In
comparison with the previous images from 17 Aug 2011 and 05 Feb 2013, the current MRI distinctly showed 
increasing changes of the glia in the right hemisphere, with the result that in this region it could not clearly be 
distinguished between encephalitis disseminata and PML. In comparison with the previous MRIs the new finding of 
a currently old infarction in the vascular territory of the mid/posterior cerebral arteries was seen which had occurred 
in the meantime. Most probably left-sided Wallerian degeneration was imaged. No pathological contrast medium 
enhancement, furthermore no active MS lesions were displayed. In comparison with the previous MRIs at least 
slight reduction of the brain volume was seen. As of 09 Apr 2015, the patient had not recovered from PML and had 
recovered from IRIS. Causality for the events was assessed as related to TYSABRI.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 192 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information