Medically significant
The below information is a case summary from 22 Jul 2013 to 30 Jul 2013:
A neurologist reported a 43 year old female on TYSABRI for MS x 20 infusions (every 5 weeks; off label use) from 
28 Jul 2011 to 23 Jun 2013 and enrolled in the observational study (b) (6)
 Her MS was 
diagnosed on 15 Jun 2002, she has no prior history of immunosuppression, and she testes serum anti-JCV 
antibody positive on 01 Apr 2011. Prior MS therapies include AVONEX (interferon beta-1a) for 58 months until 15 
Jul 2011. While on TYSABRI, the patient had experienced an MS relapse in Jan 2013 (refer to case 
2013BI049842).
Concomitant medication included Fampyra (fampridine, 10 mg, BID) for gait disturbance in MS since 02 Mar 2013 
and Sativex (cannabidiol / delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, TID) for spasticity due to MS since 06 Apr 2013.
On 20 Jun 2013, she developed sudden worsening of her pre-existing spastic leg paresis, followed by a cognitive 
deficit and was hospitalized on (b) (6)  Brain MRI on 24 Jun 2013, when compared to prior scan from 08 Jan
2013, noted 2 new lesions in the left hemisphere; one in the subcortical white matter, and the second in the 
thalamus. Both lesions had ill-defined borders and subtle intensity on diffusion weighted images, and were 
hypointense on T1. CSF for JCV PCR obtained on 08 Jul 2013 returned positive from the (b) (6)
at 279 copies/ ml. She was treated with mirtazapine and mefloquine on approximately 15 Jul 2013. The patient and 
her husband did not consent to plasma exchange (PLEX). CSF for JCV PCR obtained on (b) (6)  returned 
positive from the (b) (6)  at 3555 copies/ ml; serum JCV PCR drawn on the same day was also 
positive at 90 copies/ ml. EDSS at this time was 8.5 (assessed on (b) (6) ). Follow-up brain MRI on (b) (6)
found a slight increased size of left frontal lesion without enhancement and otherwise consistent with prior exam on 
(b) (6)  Biogen Idec considers this case confirmed for PML on (b) (6)  based on clinical symptoms, 
positive CSF and MRI findings. 
Update 03 Sep 2013: The treating neurologist from the hospital provided a discharge summary regarding the 
hospitalization from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  and a doctor s letter regarding the transfer from the intensive care 
unit (ICU) where the patient was treated from 13 Aug 2013 to 19 Aug 2013. The discharge summary mentioned the
following: The patient had previously been hospitalized due to sensory disturbance on the left side and significant 
worsening of walking ability from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  (discharge letter not available). These neurological 
symptoms were assessed as MS relapse and treated with cortisone pulse therapy for five days. However, no 
improvement of symptoms was noticed and MRI performed on (b) (6)  showed two new lesions in the left 
hemisphere. Short term follow-up was recommended. On (b) (6)  the patient was electively hospitalized due to
suspicion of PML. On admission, neurological examination revealed hypoesthesia on the left side of her face, 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 197 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Babinski positive both sides and severe spastic paraparesis more pronounced on the left side. Extensive 
neuropsychological examination on (b) (6)  and (b) (6)  revealed cognitive deficits (mental arithmetic, 
visuo-construction, memory, sensitivity to interference). On (b) (6) , electroencephalogram (EEG) showed 
possible bi-frontal lesion and subtle signs of frontal focus on the right. MRI performed on (b) (6)  showed 
increasing of hyperintense lesions in the left hemisphere and in the left thalamus. MRI done on (b) (6)  was 
difficult to assess due to movement artifacts but no clear evidence of changes in size of known T2-hyperintense 
lesions as well as no blood brain barrier (BBB) disruption was seen. On (b) (6)  MRI scans showed again no 
changes in size of the lesions on the T2 weighted image and no indication of BBB disruption. On(b) (6) , a 
lumbar puncture was performed and yielded a clear aspirate. On (b) (6)  the results of JCV PCR diagnostics 
were 58.095 copies/mL in CSF and 1.290 copies/mL in serum.
The patient's condition deteriorated during her hospital stay at first and was characterized by paraplegic legs, lack 
of motivation and disorder of effective functions, but stabilized later on. No clinical and radiological signs of immune
reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) were seen. On (b) (6) , the patient still presented paraplegic 
legs, sensory disturbance in the left half of her face an in the right leg and was transferred to a rehabilitation center. 
The doctor s letter regarding the transfer from the ICU mentioned that on 11 Aug 2013, the patient had a 
suspected epileptic fit (considered medically significant by the company). Treatment included Orfiril (valproate 250 
mg, BID) for suspected epileptic fit since 11 Aug 2013. Outcome information and causality assessment for this 
event were not provided.
A cranial MRI was performed on (b) (6)  and the patient received midazolam (unknown dose, route, 
frequency) prior to the examination. The MR images from (b) (6)  showed movement artifacts. The bilateral 
frontal confluent T2 lesions were more pronounced on the left and had progressed compared to the previous scan. 
Within these T2 lesions there were punctuated contrast enhancements, especially in the right frontal white matter.
After MRI on (b) (6)  the patient was very somnolent due to intake of midazolam and it was nearly impossible
to wake her up. She was therefore transferred to the ICU for observation. Cardiovascular conditions were stable. 
Babinsky reflex could be triggered on both sides. Patient could make eye contact but did not follow any instructions.
Treatment of PML was updated with Urbason (methylprednisolone, 1g, QD) for five days from (b) (6)  to (b)(6)  
(b) (6)  and Octagam (immunoglobulin, 30 g, QD) for five days from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)
On (b) (6)  the cranial MRI revealed the following results: the confluent T2 lesions had progressed further still 
and were spreading temporally/parietally on the left, into the left basal ganglia and thalamus up to the left cerebral 
peduncle, and into the right frontal operculum. There was also an increase of the punctate contrast enhancements 
in the right frontal white matter. The radiologist assessed these signal alterations as indicative of IRIS (onset 
unknown). Outcome information and causality assessment for the event of IRIS were not provided.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 198 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Medical history was updated with following information: MS type was initially RRMS treated with AVONEX 
(interferon beta 1a) from 2006 to 2011. Since 2008 the patient had been suffering from slow progression of MS and
in the discharge summary the MS type was mentioned as secondary progressive MS. The patient had experienced 
MS relapse and progression of MS in 2011 and 2008, respectively (see Mfr. DE-BIOGENIDEC-2013BI087816).
Concomitant medication was updated with Mydocalm (tolperisone 50 mg, TID) for an unknown indication since an 
unknown date.
The units of JCV DNA PCR tests (previously reported by the neurologist) were corrected from copies/mcl to 
copies/ml (according to the discharge summary).
Update 18 Sep 2013: The treating neurologist from the hospital reported that on (b) (6)  patient s score at 
Karnofsky Performance Status Scale was 10 and EDSS was 9.5. No further CSF had been collected for JCV 
testing and no further MRI of brain had been done since the previous report. The patient was treated in an intensive
care unit. The patient was in coma with spasticity and associated synergistic movements in all extremities. The 
patient did not received any MS therapy currently. PML was ongoing. The neurologist did not provide information or 
causality assessment regarding the IRIS. The neurologist provided an update of the discharge summary regarding 
the hospitalization with admission date of (b) (6) . Discharge date was not mentioned in the update. According 
to the discharge letter, the patient had not developed an IRIS and the MRI result of (b) (6)  was assessed as 
progressing fulminant PML. During the ICU stay, the patient had developed urinary tract infection which was treated
with ciprofloxacin (500 mg) and hypokalaemia which was treated with Kalinor Brause (potassium).
Update 27 Nov 2013: A company sales force reported that the patient had improved clinically and that her condition
had stabilized. The patient had been discharged from the clinic in the meantime. Further details were not available.
Update 14 Dec 2013: The treating neurologist from the hospital reported that the patient was currently in a nursing 
home. She could not provide further information as the patient s husband (who is also her legal guardian) refused 
further in-patient medical treatment.
Update 27 Dec 2013: The treating neurologist from the hospital provided the following additional information: On an
unknown date prior to starting TYSABRI (i.e. prior to 28 Jul 2011), the patient's Karnofsky score was 100 (normal 
no complaints; no evidence of disease) and EDSS score was 3. The patient's Karnofsky score on TYSABRI prior to
PML was reported as 100 (date of assessment was not provided). The Karnofsky score at time of PML diagnosis 
was 60.
Update 21 Jul 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist. Medical history includes venous 
sinus thrombosis in the presence of Factor V Leiden mutation, left and right coxarthrosis, left gonarthrosis, and flour
dust allergy. Since Oct 2013, the patient receives speech therapy twice a week for dysarthria and buccofacial 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 199 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
apraxia to improve her ability to speak and to swallow. Since Oct 2013, the patient lives in a home for the elderly. 
Prior to that, she lived in a handicapped accessible flat. 
The patient was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  for follow up control of PML. Twenty-one days prior 
to this hospitalization (i.e. (b) (6) ), her husband observed several focal seizures with twitching in the right 
side of the body, which abated after one to two minutes on its own. Dosing of Keppra (levetiracetam) was 
increased. On admission, she presented with saccadic eye movement but no double vision. Neurological 
examination revealed that her muscle propioceptive reflexes were increased with exhaustless clonic movements of 
both feet, but more pronounced on the right side. Babinski reflex test was positive on both sides. Regarding her 
motor functions, she suffers from severe spastic tetraparesis, more pronounced on the right, with spastic paresis of
her right arm. Cranial nerve status was without pathological findings. The patient was bed-ridden. A cranial MRI 
performed on (b) (6)  revealed the following: compared to a previous examination, unchanged distinct 
widespread alterations on both sides frontofrontal and frontoparietal as well as in cerebellum were seen. Contrast 
enhancement is abating and is only present as spots in right hemisphere in front side ventricle as well as in both 
cerebellar peduncles. MS lesions were also unchanged. She appeared to be much more alert compared to 
previous hospitalization. Her husband reported that after the previous hospitalization, there was a distinct 
improvement in the patient's condition. She was more alert, she had more word production (i.e. she talked more) 
and she was even speaking in entire sentences. However, her vigilance was strongly fluctuating. She has high 
fatigability. Overall assessment of hospitalization notes that a slow improvement of patient's clinical condition is 
seen, especially with regards to alertness. The patient is again able to get in contact with her surroundings, 
however her tetraparesis persists. Continuation of Lariam (mefloquine, QW) and Remergil (mirtazapine, 8 mL, QD) 
was recommended.
The patient was hospitalized from(b) (6)  to (b) (6)  for neurological follow-up control of PML. A cranial 
MRI performed during this admission revealed distinct white matter alterations in terms of typical MS lesions. There
was neither alteration in MS lesions nor in contrast-enhancing lesions when compared to previous examination. 
EEG revealed an alpha-rhythm with mild general changes, intermittent theta-waves and a focal finding right 
temporal. Due to increased spasticity of patient's muscles, Baclofen therapy (10 mg, TID) was initiated. With 
Baclofen, spasticity was slowly improving.
The patient was hospitalized from (b) (6)  to (b) (6)  for rehabilitation. She has symptomatic epilepsy, 
and her last seizure occurred about nine months ago. Several EEGs were performed on (b) (6) , (b) (6)
(b) (6)  and (b) (6) , all of which could not show epileptiform activity. There was a focal temporo-
occipital finding on the left.  Ophthalmological consultation on (b) (6)  found the right eye with widespread 
preretinal bleeding peripapillary and the left eye had opticus arthrophy [sic]. Neurological examination found 
Babinski s sign on the left to be positive. Regarding the patient's general condition, she is being moved around in a
wheelchair as she is unable to do even short distances on her own. Adequate orientation is missing. She has fine 
motor skill deficiencies in both her hands. She is entirely (100%) in need of care. She requires assistance for any 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 200 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
transfer. During this hospitalization, Lyrica (pregabalin) (75 mg, BID) was started as the patient was highly anxious 
and tense. Although Lyrica was causing fatigue, the patient felt clearly released with this treatment. Therapy with 
Remergil and Lariam continued.
Update 07 Nov 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist via a hospital discharge summary. 
From(b) (6)  to (b) (6)  the patient was electively admitted to hospital for MRI control after PML/IRIS 
under TYSABRI therapy. At present, the patient was living in a nursing home. The last control had been in Mar 
2014; subsequently, she had stayed in rehabilitation treatment for 8 weeks. Upon admission the examination 
showed an alert, sufficiently orientated, cooperative patient. She had good speech comprehension and responded 
with simple sentences. All deep tendon reflexes were increased, Babinski sign was positive on both sides. The 
abdominal reflex was absent on both sides. Bilaterally an exhaustible foot clonus was present. In the pronator drift 
test, the right arm was descending and in pronation, and paresis of the muscles which splay the fingers and of the 
muscles which bend the fingers were present. The left arm was without pathological findings in the pronator drift 
test. In the test for Barrs pyramidal sign lifting of both legs was not possible, the patient showed paraparesis, the 
tonus was slightly increased. Aesthesia and algesia were equal on both sides, finger-to-nose test was atactic and 
dysmetric on the left side, and impossible to perform on the right side. The ankle-over-tibia test was impossible to 
perform on both sides. Walking was impossible for the patient. The internal examination was without pathological 
findings, blood pressure was 110/65mmHg, heart frequency was 80 per minute, rhythmical. Diagnostic tests 
included the following: cranial MRI from (b) (6)  showed the distinct changes in the white matter which 
corresponded to a mixed picture of lesions typical for MS, for PML and for IRIS basically remained unchanged. In 
the frontal region the changes more and more passed into a defect state. No evidence of recent contrast medium 
enhancing lesions.  The ECG from(b) (6)  was without pathological findings.   Urea was 61mg/dl, other 
routine parameters were within normal ranges.  Urinalysis revealed leukocyturia and was nitrite positive.
Compared to the examination in Mar 2014 the patient presented a stable clinical picture. The patient was alert and 
spoke simple sentences, established contact and was communicating. She reported that the paresis of the right 
arm had increased during the last months. The cranial MRI was unchanged compared to the scan in Mar 2014. 
There was no contrast medium enhancing lesion, the changes of the white matter corresponded to a defect state. 
The spasticity distinctly had improved on baclofen and tolperidon administration during the period from spring to 
present, the right arm frequently showing contractures. The rehabilitation treatment in spring also had done her 
good. In the moment regular controls were no longer indicated by the physician because the patient was in a stable 
defect state. There was no evidence of recent multiple sclerosis activity; therefore, the physician refrained from an 
immune-modulating therapy.  According to the physician, therapy with Lariam (mefloquine) 250mg once per week 
as well as with Remergil (mirtazapine) due to virostatic reasons was no longer indicated. The physician advised that
Lariam should be discontinued immediately, Remergil should be reduced by 15mg steps in 4-week intervals taking 
into consideration the occurrence of depressions and increasing sleeping disorder. According to the physician, 
Fampyra was no longer indicated because the patient could no longer walk and was expected not to regain her 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 201 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
ability to walk.    Medications on discharge included the following: Movicol (macrogol) bag QD, Orfiril (valproic acid) 
10ml TID, Tramal (tramadol) 15mg QID, Pentasa (mesalamine) 2g QD, methionine 500mg TID, Lyrica (pregabalin) 
75mg BID, baclofen 10mg TID, Arcoxia (etoricoxib) 60mg QD, Remergil currently 45mg QD to be reduced by 15mg
in 4-week intervals, tolperison 50mg TID, 500ml water via the lying PEG (percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy). 
The outcome of the events of PML and IRIS and causality to TYSABRI were not provided.
Update 16 and 18 Sep 2015: Additional information was received from the neurologist via MS Standardized PML 
Data Collection Tool. As of this report the patient is alive and was currently in an intensive care unit. The patient 
was currently not on an MS therapy. On 15 Sep 2015 the patient's estimated Karnofsky score was assessed as 40 
(disabled; requires special care and assistance). PML outcome was not recovered on 18 Sep 2015 and the 
outcome of IRIS is unknown. The causality for PML and IRIS was not assessed.