This is a spontaneous report from a contactable physician who reported for a patient. 
This 53-year-old, Caucasian male patient started to receive crizotinib (XALKORI) since 12Jun2013 at 250 mg 
eapeeklekeragy, ,twoitimes a day for anaplastic lymphoma kinase4ALK*positive non-small cell lung cancer and 
petnetFaxed4Ma0feeturer ) since an unknown date at an, dose and frequency for unknown 
indication and  n) since an unknown date at an unknown dose and frequency for 
unknowntindication.,Relevantm oh, ' history included bipolar disorder and tobacco abuse, both since an unknown 
data. R.Ievnt . -M00 - . 0 -.0 sertrahne h'.0 , ",  o (ZOLOFT) since an ? ? date at 190 
mg *Wier lapetar bepro 0:0 hydrochloride (WELLBUTRii) since an unknown date at 150 mg two times 
a day  bipolar oer, divalproex sodium (DEPAKOTE) since an:unkriown date at ;'0,0?ing two times a day for 
bipolar thearders.h ..000 te/ac: 0. o en (LORTAB) since an unknown date at an un o  dose as 
needed tefan laiknown , folk acid since an unknown date at 1 mg daily for an u ,  0:tion. It was 
reported that since an unknown date in 2013 while being on crizotinib, the patient developed ?  ss of breath 
and severe pee .  as he was diagnosed with bilateral interstitial ;infiltrates. It was also reported that 
pabent-exPeSenCednausea while being :exed and c . Relevant laboratory data 0 , 0 
ripe***rnputed axial,  , ?,- , o.  (CAT).scan since an unknown date in 2043 and he was diagnosed with 
bilateral?interStillal 'Migrates wherein/ 0? 4,0 , of infiltrates were found. The patient s000 ,41 taking criz 0 
therapy  an  taken an  enknewn date and last 0'  wifhpernetrexed and c ? was unknown. Therapeutic 
measures takenie/esponse to the event severe pneumonitis (bilateral.interstitial infiltrates with s o ss of 
breath) Includedififteen meter oxygen and unspecified steroids, both since an,un  , date at an unknown dose 
and frequency and therapeutic measures taken. in r  o  se to the event, nausea  ed  setron 
OfelVettieffleatZ9FRAN) sincean, date at an unknown dose as needed. The patient was recovering from 
the event severe  (bilateral interstitial infiltrates with ss of breath) and clinical outcome of the 
other reported event, nausea was unknown at the time of report. The physician mentioned that the events severe 
pextbmeelltia(bileteratinterstillatinfiltrates with shortness of,  breath) were due to crizotinib.