Report No 1 received from US Consumer Relations, Date 03-AUG-2013, Reference No: R051279740. 
Suspect drug: Delsym Unknown [Unspecified Delsym] 
Case reference number US-RB-056979-13 is a spontaneous case report sent by a consumer or other non health 
professional which refers to a male aged 2 years. 
A reporter (Mother) reported that her 2 year old child took Delsym Unknown on 20-JUL-2013 for an unknown 
indication. The reporter stated that patient opened a child proof cap and drank the entire bottle of Delsym. They 
visited hospital and stayed there for the next 24 hours to make sure patient did not stop breathing. The reporter 
stated that patient almost died. The patient was asymptomatic at the time of reporting. 
The reaction was deemed serious by the reporter because it required hospitalization. 
The reporter's causality for the case is Possible, The reporting consumer or other non health professional's clinical 
assessment for drug Delsym Unknown [Dextromethorphan hydrobromide] is as follows: seriousness not provided 
with a relatedness of possible. 
The company's assessment for the case is serious, possible and unlisted. 
No further information was available at the time of report. 
Outcome: Unknown. 
Report No 2 received from US Consumer Relations, Date 12-AUG-2013, Reference No: R051279740. 
Information added I updated: 
Suspect drug updated to ''Delsym Child Grape (dextromethorphan polistirex)". 
Adverse events: "Hallucinating; Could Not Walk; Could Not Talk; Could Not Stand; heart rate was 140-190 ; Did not 
sleep for more than 12 hours; Vomiting and Patient Was like a Limp Noodle; phobia" added. 
Overall outcome of the case was updated to "Not Recovered / Not Resolved". 
Dechallenge was ticked "yes". 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page  88 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
Action taken with drug was selected as "drug withdrawn". 
Patient initials "privacy" added, 
Emergency visit and other medically important condition ticked "yes". 
The reporter (Mother) stated that on 20-JUL-2013, reporter had given 2 doses of Delsyrn Child Grape to 2 of her 
other children. The patient secured the lid tightly and put it on the counter. The reporter later heard patient vomiting, 
and noticed a tint of purple. The reporter then found the empty bottle of Delsym Child Grape and realized patient 
opened the bottle and drank it all. The reporter took patient to the local emergency room and then was transported 
to another hospital for observation. The patient was hallucinating, and couldn't walk, talk, or stand. The reporter 
said patient was like a limp noodle. The patient was admitted to the hospital overnight for observation, where he 
received oxygen and a heart monitor, his heart rate was 140-190 and he did not sleep for more than 12 hours. The 
patient was fine at the time of reporting, though reporter stated patient seems to have a phobia from being away 
from her. 
The reaction was deemed serious by the reporter because it was classed as an other medically important condition 
due to "Hallucinating", required hospitalization. The patient was hospitalized. 
The reporter's causality for the case is Possible. The reporting consumer or other non health professional's clinical 
assessment for drug Delsym Child Grape Pextromethorphan hydrobromide) is as follows: seriousness not 
provided with a relatedness of possible. 
The company's assessment for the case is serious, possible and unlisted. 
No further information was available at the time of report. 
Outcome: Not Recovered / Not Resolved.