This is a spontaneous report from a contactable health care professional received by Pfizer from My/Ian 
(manufacturer control number 2013-EPI-00174), license party for Epinephrine (EpiPen). 
An 8-year-old Caucasian male who initially complained of a "hot" mouth and stomachache 5 minutes after ingesting 
jelly beans, lemonade, and potato chips at a school party. No rash or other visible symptoms accompanied his 
reaction, Thirty minutes post ingestion, he complained of worsening abdominal pain, a ''fuzzy" feeling in this throat, 
and chest pain. He was sent to the nurse's office, where he was evaluated but no medications were given. His 
mother was called, and he was driven to his pediatrician's office. On presentation to the pediatric office, now about 
60 minutes after ingesting the foods at the school party, the patient complained of tightness in his throat and chest 
and severe abdominal pain. Epinephrine, diphenhydramine, albuterol, and oxygen were administered, and 911 was 
called. He responded briefly but then became hypotensive and cyanotic and was transported to the emergency 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM  If a field is blank, there Is no data for that field Page  9393   of 328 
1 FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) FDLY1. \, FOIA Case Report Information 
room. Unfortunately, despite aggressive resuscitative efforts, he developed asystole and was pronounced dead 
about 2 hours after eating the suspect foods. Medical history included food allergies to eggs and peanuts since 
early childhood. The patient's previous reactions to eggs included hives and vomiting. His only previous reaction to 
peanuts included oral pruritus accompanied by a cough when he was 4 years of age. Moderate persistent asthma 
initially diagnosed at age 2, seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis beginning about 3 years of age, atopic dermatitis 
quite severe in infancy, now mild. No other known allergies to medications or stinging insects. Concomitant 
medication included fluticasone propionate (FLOVENT), cetirizine hydrochloride (ZYRTEC), and salbutamol 
(ALBUTEROL). The patient was previously prescribed with Epipen 1 injection as needed which was never 
previously required. The action taken in response to the events for epinephrine was unknown. The patient died on 
an unspecified date. It was not reported if an autopsy was performed. 
Case Summary and Recommendation 
This is an unfortunate case of fatal anaphylaxis in an 8-year-old boy with known allergies to egg and peanut, as well 
as a history of asthma, allergic rhinitis, and atopic dermatitis. It is presented here because it dramatically illustrates 
a number of important messages about food-induced anaphylaxis. Those messages are as follows: 
Food allergy is the most common cause of anaphylaxis. The incidence of food allergy is steadily increasing with 5% 
to 7% of children being affected. While many children with food allergy experience only mild reactions, others will 
experience sever, even life-threatening reactions. 
While death from food-induced anaphylaxis is not common, it occurs far too often, with an estimated 150 cases 
resulting in death per year in the United States. 
There are three major risk factors for fatal anaphylaxis, all of which are pertinent to this case 
-Peanut and tree nut allergy 
-Presence of asthma 
-Delay in the administration of epinephrine 
The third risk factor: delay in the administration of epinephrine, deserves special attention. While we can do nothing 
to change the first two risk factors, this one is under our control. The male patient in this case might not have died if 
he had been treated with epinephrine at the onset of his symptoms. Any patient with a history of severe reactions or 
with a history of asthma and peanut or nut allergy should be treated with the early administration of epinephrine. 
This requires that we provide these patients with the epinephrine as well as a clear action plan of how and when it 
is to be used. 
While previous reaction severity may be some guide to future severity, reactions are more unpredictable than 
predictable. Even though the male patient in this case had no such reactions in the past, he should have been 
considered at risk for a severe reaction simply because he had a peanut allergy. 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 94 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information