This case, manufacturer control number 2013US-72879 from the UNITED STATES refers tq a 5 month old infant 
who experienced the following events (preferred term): Drug toxicity and Death. 
This case was reported in the literature. This literature contains 39 valid case reports for Ranbaxy. This case refers 
to Patient 6 of the Appendix 2 of the article. 
This case was considered as serious as the event 'Toxicity to various agents' was medically significant and the 
patient died. 
The following product was considered as suspect: 
Pseudoephedrine (company suspect product) for unknown indication 
Dose: Unknown 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM la field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 136 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
Therapy start/ Stop date: Unknown 
Action taken: Not applicable 
Patient death report: 
Cause of death: Death 
Patient index number as per the appendix 2: 7523986 
Reported cause of death: Undetermined cause of death 
Comment: urine phenylpropanolamine detected but not quantified, medical examiner suspicious of 
pseudoephedrine toxicity. 
As per the report, In 15 infants blood pseudoephedrine concentrations ranged between 0.07 mg/L and 13.0 mg/L. 
with a mean concentration of 3.55 mg/L. 
Cause-of-death information is the opinion of the certifier and may not be accurate. In some cases, 
pseudoephedrine levels were also measured in tissues or body fluids. 
The data do not allow definitive statements about the toxicity of pseudoephedrine at given concentrations. 
Concentrations falling in the upper portion of the range should certainly be viewed with suspicion, however a paucity 
of data exists concerning pseudoephedrine levels, in infants. Baselt reported a level of 66 mg/L in a child who 
ingested at least seven 60-mg tablets (1983, Poisiodex), a concentration much higher than the highest level 
observed in the above data. A blood level of 6.0 mg/L was reported in a 3-month-old who died after accidental 
ingestion of an unspecified amount of pseudoephedrine (blood carbinoxamine was 0.4 mg/L) (Am J Emergency 
Med 1989; 7{5}:495). A Medline search provided information that pseudoephedrine has been associated with each 
of the following conditions but not necessarily in children: a pseudoscarletina dermatitis, contact dermatitis, seizures 
in an infant, rhabdomyolysis, central nervous system hemorrhage, hallucinations in a child, and hypertension. Also, 
pseudoephedrine is reportedly secreted in breast milk and crosses the placenta. 
The outcome of the events Toxicity to various agents and Death was reported as unknown and Fatal respectively at 
the time of this report. 
Case outcome; Fatal 
Ranbaxy medical reviewers comment: 
The case is deemed serious. The events are unexpected as per Pl. Medical reviewer assessed the events, in view 
of reasonable time relationship to,drug intake, to be possibly related to the suspect drug as per the WHO-UMC 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 137 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
system for standardized causality assessment.