This case, manufacturer control number 2013US-72957 from the UNITED STATES refers to a 1 month old male 
with the following events (Preferred Term): Toxicity to various agents, Sudden infant death syndrome and Hypoxic-
ischaemic encephalopathy. 
This case was reported in the literature. This literature contains 15 valid case reports for Ranbaxy. This case refers 
to Patient #10 of table 1. 
This case is considered as serious as the events resulted in death of the patient. 
Following products were considered as suspects: 
1) Pseudoephedrine {Company suspect product) for unknown indication 
Dose: Unknown 
Therapy start/ Stop date: Unknown 
Action taken: Not applicable 
2) Tylenol plus (Paracetamol, Dextromethorphan, Phenylephrine) (Non-company suspect) for wheezing 
Dose: Unknown 
Therapy start/ Stop date: Unknown 
Action taken: Not applicable 
As per the report, The Philadelphia Medical Examiners Office is a metropolitan facility that provides autopsy and 
toxicology services for Philadelphia County having a population of c. 1.5 million. This encompasses the central city 
of Philadelphia as Well as its suburbs and so comprises a diversified demographic area. In each of the 15 cases 
presented, a young child was given over the counter (OTC) cold medication, presumably to treat or prevent 
symptoms from a cold or other respiratory condition. We searched our in house database for cases of young 
children in which pseudoephedrine and other drugs found in OTC cold medications had been reported, Cases from 
1992 to 2002 were stored in the Inquest system database. Cases from 2003 to 2005 were stored in the CME 
system database. 
Results: 
The toxicology results according to age and gender of the 15 deceased children. The group was comprised of 12 
males and three females ranging in age from 1 to 16 months. Eight of the 15 young children were born 
Prematurely. Pseudoephedrine was the predominant drug detected and was present in the blood or in the tissue of 
all of the cases. It was the only drug detected in three of The 15 cases. Pseudoephedrine blood concentration 
range (n = 14) was 0.10 to 17.0 mg/L with a mean of 3.34mg/L and a median of 0.98mg/L. The medications 
administered to the infants are listed. Documentation is incomplete with listings in only four cases (cases 3, 8, 10, 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 141 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
and 14). Even there, as many of the OTC medications have very similar names, the exact ingredients are not 
certain. However OTC cold medications are known to contain pseudoephedrine and not ephedrine and so no 
attempt was made to separate them in the analyses of the cases. Acetaminophen was present in the blood from 
each of the five cases that had sufficient volume to analyze. In four of the five cases, blood concentrations were 
within the therapeutic range (< 20 mg/L). In one instance, case 15 acetaminophen clearly exceeded therapeutic 
levels. Other commonly found constituents of OTC cold medications were also detected. Dextromethorphan was 
present in the blood in five of the cases Carbinoxamine was present in low amounts in four of the case 
chlorpheniramine in two cases; Brompheniramine, doxylamine, and ethanol in one case each. Case histories 
indicate that phenytoin was administered at the emergency room in attempt to control seizures in case 2 and 
phenobarbital had previously been prescribed in case 14. 
Discussion: 
In eight of the 15 cases, (cases; 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, and 15), drug involvement was determined to be either the 
cause of death or a contributing factor with pseudoephederine as the predominant drug. The cause of death for 
cases 1 was listed as undetermined and case 2 as pneumonia. However, both cases had extremely high 
pseudoephedrine blood concentrations: 17.0 and 9.6 mg/L respectively. So it is probable that pseudoephedrine 
intoxication played a significant role in these infant deaths as well. 
TABLE 1- Case histories 
Patient No: 10 
Age/Gender: 1 month/Male 
Drugs: Pseudoephedrine, Acetaminophen 
Specimen: Fluoridated Blood, cardiac blood 
Cause of Death/Manner of Death Comments: SUID/undetermined acute anoxic encephalomyopathy and 
pseudoephedrine ingestion contributing factors 
History: Full term infant found unresponsive and face down in bassinet Mother admitted to giving infant one-half 
dropper of Tylenol Plus to alleviate wheezing. OTC Concentrated Infant Drops Plus Cold retrieved at scene. 
Autopsy unremarkable except for anoxic encephalopathy. 
The outcome of the events was reported as fatal at the time of this report. 
Case outcome: Fatal 
Ranbaxy medical reviewers comment: 
The case is deemed serious. The events are unexpected as per the P1. Medical reviewer assessed the events, in 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a fleld is blank, there is no data for that field Page 142 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
view of reasonable time relationship to drug intake, to be possibly related to company suspect drugs as per WHO 
UMC system for standardized causality assessment.