This case, manufacturer control number 2013US-72985 from the UNITED STATES refers to a 6 months old male 
with the following events (Preferred Term): Toxicity to various agents and Adrenal haemorrhage. 
This case was reported in the literature. This literature contains 15 valid case reports for Ranbaxy. This case refers 
to Patient 9 of Table 1 of the article. 
This case is considered as serious as the event 'Adrenal haemorrhage' is medically significant and event 'Toxicity 
to various agents' caused death of the patient. 
The following products were considered as suspects: 
1) Pseucephedrine (Company suspect product) for unknown indication 
Dose: Unknown 
Therapy start/ stop date: Unknown 
Action taken: Not applicable 
2) Acetaminophen (Company suspect product) for unknown indication 
Dose: Unknown 
Therapy start/ stop date: Unknown 
Action taken: Not applicable 
TABLE 1- Case histories 
Patient No: 9 
Age/Gender: 6 months/Male 
Drugs: Pseudoephedrine, Acetaminophen 
Specimen: Flouridated blood, Flouridated blood 
Reported Cause of death: Pseudoephedrine toxicity/Undetermined 
Manner of death: Undetermined 
History: Infant born after 3-4 week gestation spent 10 days in hospital after birth. Found face down with vomit on 
face. Mother reported infant having high fever in morning and admitted to administering antipyretics, fan therapy, 
and cool baths. Autopsy significant for adrenal hemorrhage and congenital asplenia. 
As per the report, The Philadelphia Medical Examiners Office is a metropolitan facility that provides autopsy and 
toxicology services for Philadelphia County having a population of c. 1.5 million. This encompasses the central city 
of Philadelphia as Well as its suburbs and so comprises a diversified demographic area. In each of the 15 cases 
presented, a young child was given over the counter (OTC) cold medication, presumably to treat or prevent 
symptoms from a cold or other respiratory condition. We searched our in house database for cases of young 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 317 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
children in which pseudoephedrine and other drugs found in OTC cold medications had been reported, Cases from 
1992 to 2002 were stored in the Inquest system database. Cases from 2003 to 2005 were stored in the CME 
system database. 
Results: 
The toxicology results according to age and gender of the 15 deceased children. The group was comprised of 12 
males and three females ranging in age from 1 to 16 months. Eight of the 15 young children were born 
Prematurely. 
Pseudoephedrine was the predominant drug detected and was present in the blood or in the tissue of all of the 
cases. It was the only drug detected in three of The 15 cases. Pseudoephedrine blood concentration range (n = 14) 
was 0.10 to 17.0 mg/L with a mean of 3.34mg/L and a median of 0.98 mg/L. The medications administered to the 
infants are listed. Documentation is incomplete with listings in only four cases (cases 3, 8, 10, and 14). Even there, 
as many of the OTC medications have very similar names, the exact ingredients are not certain. However OTC cold 
medications are known to contain pseudoephedrine and not ephedrine and so no attempt was made to separate 
them in the analyses of the cases, 
Acetaminophen was present in the blood from each of the five cases that had sufficient volume to analyze. In four 
of the five cases, blood concentrations were within the therapeutic range (< 20 mg/L), In one instance, case 15 
acetaminophen clearly exceeded therapeutic levels. 
Other commonly found constituents of OTC cold medications were also detected. Dextromethorphan was present 
in the blood in five of the cases Carbinoxamine was present in low amounts in four of the case chlorpheniramine in 
two cases: Brompheniramine, doxylamine, and ethanol in one case each. Case histories indicate that phenytoin 
was administered at the emergency room in attempt to control seizures in case 2 and phenobarbital had previously 
been prescribed in case 14. 
Discussion: 
In eight of the 15 cases, (cases: 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, and 15). drug involvement was determined to be either the 
cause of death or a contributing factor with pseudoephederine as the predominant drug. The cause of death for 
cases 1 was listed as undetermined and case 2 as pneumonia. However, both cases had extremely high 
pseudoephedrine blood concentrations: 17.0 and 9.6 mgIL respectively. So it is probable that pseudoephedrine 
intoxication played a significant role in these infant deaths as well. 
In cases 5, 6, and 7 the extent of drug involvement was unclear. The cause of death Was listed sudden 
unexplained infant death (SUID) or undetermined but contribution from drugs cannot be totally ruled out. In case 5, 
only liver tissue was available for testing thus complicating the interpretation of the drug level. 
Only in cases 8 and 13 was it determined that drugs were neither the cause of death nor a contributing factor, and 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 318 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FDA FOIA Case Report Information 
that the manner of death was natural. In case 8, cosleeping with an adult was listed as a significant condition and in 
case 13 the cause of death was myocarditis. 
It is apparent from these 15 cases that there is inconsistency in correlating the cause of death with 
pseudoephedrine concentrations. For example, cases 1 and 2 had the highest pseudoephedrine blood 
concentrations. In case 1, pseudoehedrine was not listed as the cause of death but was referred to in the final 
autopsy diagnosis as part of an amended toxicology report. In case 2, no mention was actually made of 
pseudoephedrine involvement. Both of these cases were from 1999 and were received c. 3 weeks apart. At that 
time, it was the policy of the laboratory to report pseudoAephedrine only as present without quantifying. At the 
request of the medical examiner, the pseudoephedrine concentration was later determined for both. However, in 
case 2, an amended toxicology report was never generated and so the pseudoephedrine blood concentration was 
never noted as part of the autopsy report. In contrast, for cases received more than 2 years later, 
pseudoAephedrine toxicity was ruled as the cause of death for cases 3 and 9 event though the concentrations were 
much lower than in the first two cases. It would appear that the medical examiners were beAcoming more aware of 
the possibility of pseudoephedrine toxicity. This is important because a significant number of the infant deaths are 
unexplained and, as can be seen in Table 1 oftentimes are listed as SUIDs. The possible involvement of 
pseudoephedrine should not be ignored in these types of sudden and unexplained deaths as the potential for 
pseudoephedrine and other sympatho mimetic amines to cause palpitations, tachycardia, and cardiac arrhythmias 
has been documented.  
The outcome of the event 'Adrenal hemorrhage' was reported as unknown and outcome of the event 'Drug toxicity' 
was fatal at the time of this report. 
Case outcome: Fatal 
Ranbaxy medical reviewers comment: 
The case is deemed serious, The events are unexpected as per the PI Medical reviewer assessed the events, in 
view of reasonable time relationship to drug intake, to be possibly related to company suspect drug as per WHO 
UMC system for standardized causality assessment.