This case, manufacturer control number 2013US-72881 from the UNITED STATES refers to a 4 month old infant 
who experienced the following event (preferred term): Drug toxicity. 
This case was reported in the literature. This literature contains 39 valid case reports for Ranbaxy. This case refers 
to Patient 4 of the Appendix 2 of the article. 
This case was considered as serious as the events led to death of the patient. 
The following products were considered as suspect: 
Pseudoephedrine (company suspect product) for unknown indication 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page W  238 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
Dose: Unknown 
Therapy start/ Stop date: Unknown 
Action taken: Not applicable 
Carbinoxamine for unknown indication 
Dose: Unknown 
Therapy start! Stop date: Unknown 
Action taken: Not applicable 
Patient history: 
Seizure disorder 
Patient death report: 
Cause of death: Drug toxicity 
Patient index number as per the appendix 2: 880405 
Reported cause of death: Carbinoxamine/ pseudoephedrine poisoning 
Comment: blood carbinoxamine 0.27mg/I 
As per the report, in 15 infants blood pseudoephedrine concentrations ranged between 0.07 mg/L and 13.0 mg/L. 
with a mean concentration of 3.55 mg/L, 
Cause-of-death information is the opinion of the certifier and may not be accurate. In some cases, 
pseudoephedrine levels were also measured in tissues or body fluids. 
Insufficient information was available to prove that death was due to poisoning. The child had been treated for a 
seizure disorder in the past. 
The data do not allow definitive statements about the toxicity of pseudoephedrine at given concentrations. 
Concentrations failing in the upper portion of the range should certainly be viewed with suspicion. however a paucity 
of data exists concerning pseudoephedrine levels in infants. Baselt reported a level of 66 mg/L in .a child who 
ingested at least seven 60-mg tablets (1983, Poisiodex), a concentration much higher than the highest level 
observed in the above data. A blood level of 6.0 mg/L was reported in a 3-month-old who died after accidental 
ingestion of an unspecified amount of pseudoephedrine (blood carbinoxamine was 0.4 mg/L) (Am J Emergency 
Med 1989; 7{5):495). A Medline search provided information that pseudoephedrine has been associated with each 
of the following conditions but not necessarily in children: a pseudoscarletina dermatitis, contact dermatitis, seizures 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 239 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
in an infant, rhabdomyolysis, central nervous system hemorrhage, hallucinations in a child, and hypertension. Also, 
pseudoephedrine is reportedly secreted in breast milk and crosses the placenta. 
The outcome of the event was reported as fatal at the time of this report. 
Case outcome: Fatal 
Ranbaxy medical reviewers comment: 
The case is deemed serious. The event is unexpected as per Pl. Medical reviewer assessed the event, in view of 
reasonable time relationship to drug intake, to be possibly related to the suspect drug as per the WHO-UMC 
system for standardized causality assessment.