This report was received by Roche on 29AUG2013. The report was received at Astellas from Roche on 
04SEP2013. 
AER 1268953, received on 29/Aug/2013, from a physician and concerns a 49 year old female patient who 
experienced partial response, brain lesions, relapse in the CNS, new right lung nodules, anorexia, productive 
cough, progression in the thorax and in the CNS, hemoptysis while enrolled in a non interventional program NIP-
GR-3573 erlotinib in lung cancer: impact & exceptional cases : long term survival in a patient with stage IV NSCLC 
rechallenged with erlotinib. 
She was non smoker, her medical history included right hip pain (Feb/2008) 
Her initial right hip magnetic resonance imaging revealed a lesion in the right major trochanter extending to the 
femoral neck and to the lesser trochanter. Consequently, she underwent brain, thoracic and abdominal computed 
t 0 000,  hies, which showed a 3 cm left upper lobe solid mass accompanied by enlarged aortopulmonary and left 
hilar lymph nodes. Her bronchoscopy and bronchial washings were negative. She underwent a right trochanter 
biopsy was performed and confirmed the diagnosis of an adenocarcinoma expressing TTF 1. A total of 2000 cGy in 
5 fractions was delivered to the area of the right trochanter. Afterwards she was administered a combination of 
docetaxel, carboplatin and bevacizumab together with zoledronic acid (dose, from frequency and route not 
provided). She received 6 cycles of chemotherapy until Nov/2008 experiencing a partial response. A PET/CT 
demonstrated a minimal uptake in the left upper lobe nodule (SUVmax of 1.1), with no uptake in the mediastinal 
lymph nodes. Thus, she was submitted to a left upper lobectomy and mediastinal lymphadenectomy in Mar/2009. 
Histopathology report was consistent with a grade 1 lung adenocarcinoma, with a diameter of 0.7 cm, without 
involvement of 12 mediastinal lymph nodes and negative surgical margins. Post-lobectomy computed 
tomographies failed to reveal.  evident disease and as so the patient was placed under watchful follow up. In 
Sep/2009, three hyperdense brain lesions were diagnosed in the right cerebellar lobe, left frontal lobe and right 
frontal-parietal area. She received whole brain irradiation (3000 cGy) leading to a complete response in the CNS. In 
Feb/2010, imaging showed a left upper lobe mass and a relapse in the CNS with three lesions of a maximum 
diameter of 1.3 cm. Initially, she was treated with r-knife, receiving 25 Gy in each lesion. Further she was 
administered cisplatin combined with pemetrexed sodium (dose, from, frequency and route not provided). After 
three cycles of chemotherapy, a partial response was depicted in all sites of disease. She continued on three more 
cycles until Aug/2010, when an increase of the mass in the left upper lobe was found, with a maximum diameter of 
4.8 cm. A subsequent PET/CT showed an SUVmax of 22.5 in the aforementioned mass. She received cisplatin 
weekly concurrently with thoracic irradiation (6775 cGy in 35 fractions) leading to a partial response. At that time 
point she was tested positive for L858R point mutation within exon 21, and thus treated with erlotinib hydrochloride 
from Jan/2011 until Jul/2012. On Jul/2012, new right lung nodules appeared, accompanied by enlarged subcranial 
lymph nodes. She was given six cycles of paclitaxel, carboplatin, bevacizumab, and in Nov/2012 radiology showed 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field Is blank, there is no data for that field Page 105  of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
stable disease in the thorax and in the brain. Four months later, she presented clinical deterioration, complaining of 
anorexia and productive cough, while computed tomographies, magnetic resonance confirmed a progression in the 
thorax and in the CNS. After a short course of vinorelbine tartrate monotherapy, she was hospitalized due to 
hemoptysis i Thoracic computed tomography was consistent with a rapid progression concerning the 
lung parenthyma, e medlEistinal lymph nodes, as well as moderate pericardial effusion. A rechallenge with 
erlotinib hydrochloride was deemed as the only therapeutic strategy. She was still on this treatment and was 
planned for a reevaluation. 
At the time of report, the outcome of events progression in CNS (brain lesions, relapse in the CNS), new right lung 
nodules, anorexia, productive cough, progression in the thorax and, pericardial effusion and hemoptysis was not 
reported and it was not reported whether therapy with erlotinib hydrochloride, bevacizumab, docetaxel, carboplatin, 
pemetrexed sodium, paclitaxel, zoledronic acid, and vinorelbine tartrate. 
The reporter did not provide the causality of partial response, progression in CNS (brain lesions, relapse in the 
CNS), new right lung nodules, anorexia, productive cough, progression in the thorax, pericardial effusion and 
hemoptysis to erlotinib hydrochloride, bevacizumab, docetaxel, carboplatin, pemetrexed sodium, paclitaxel, 
zeledronic acid, and vinorelbine tartrate continued. 
The Asteflas medical reviewer assessed the events of partial response, progression in CNS (brain lesions, relapse 
in the CNS), new right lung nodules, anorexia, productive cough, progression in the thorax, pericardial effusion and 
hemoptysis as medically significant. 
No further information was provided.