Report No 1 received from US Consumer Relation, Date 05-SEP-2013, Reference no: 8051638880. 
Suspect Drug: Delsym (Unspecified) 
Dosing: Unknown. 
Case reference number US-RE-057783-13 is a spontaneous case report sent by a consumer or other non health 
professional which refers to a female aged unknown. 
A female patient of unknown age had been exposed to the Delsym unidentified for an unknown indication on an 
unknown date. Reporter (Grand Mother) stated that her granddaughter was in the hospital for 2 days after taking 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page  263 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
the drug. 
The reaction was deemed serious by the reporter because it required hospitalization. The patient was hospitalized. 
The reporter's causality for the case is Possible. The reporting consumer or other non health professional's clinical 
assessment for drug DELSYM UNIDENTIFIED(Unspecified J is as follows: serious; with a relatedness of Possible. 
The company's assessment for the case is serious, possible and unlisted. 
No further information was available at the time of report. 
Outcome: Unknown. 
Report No 2 received from US Consumer Relation, Date 06-SEP-2013, Reference no: R051638880. 
Information added/updated; 
Case reference number US-RB-057783-13 is a spontaneous case report sent by a consumer or other non health 
professional which refers to a female aged 6 years 6 months. 
Case seriousness: Non-serious. 
Suspect drug indication: "Cough" added. 
Patient Age: "6 years and 6 months" added. 
Lot code: "70391" added. 
Expiry date: ''01-JAN-2015" added. 
Product continuing: "No" updated. 
Action taken updated as ''drug withdrawn'', 
Dechallenge updated as "Yes" 
Print Time: 18-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 264 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
Outcome of case and events: "Recovered/Resolved" updated. 
Emergency Visit added: Yes 
Hospitalization: Tick "No". 
Taken and tolerated previously updated as "yes and No respectively". 
Adverse events: Hyper and Standing on head. 
Patient was 6 years and 6 months old and did not have any medical issues. Reporter (Grandmother) denied that 
patient was taking any other medications. She had a cough, and had a total of 3 doses over 2 days. Patient 
became very hyper and extremely agitated, standing on her head, calling out to her dog for help, etc. Reporter 
described her behaviour as like someone coming down after a high. They took her to the local Emergency Room, 
but no treatment was rendered. The next day, she took her to the Children's hospital, where they observed her in 
the Emergency Room for 12 hours. No medical treatment was rendered. She was not admitted to either hospital. 
She was fine at the time of follow up. The reporter stated that she thought that patient had a reaction to the 
Dextromethorphan and they will not give it to her anymore. The child had used the drug last year also and patient 
was hyper after its use, but not as bad as this time. 
The reporter's causality for the case is Possible. The reporting consumer or other non health professional's clinical 
assessment for drug DELSYM UNIDENTIFIED[Unspecified ] is as follows: seriousness not provided with a 
relatedness of possible. 
The company's assessment for the case is Non-serious, possible and unlisted. 
No further information was available at the time of report. 
Outcome: Recovered/Resolved.