A report has been received from a health professional (Registered Nurse) concerning, a 2 months old, female 
patient, weight: 9.1 pounds.The patient's medical history included during the birth hospitalization the .patient had 
been intubated, intubated, uses an apnea monitor and umbilical hernia repaired, umbilical hernia, moderate to 
severe pulmonary hypertension, apnea and sickle cell trait, GERD and apnea.Concomitant medications included 
ranitidine, ferrous sulfate and little remedy medication.The patient had been receiving intramuscular 
Synagis(palivizumab), first dose given in the nicu during the birth hospitalization and second dose given 48mg IM, 
patient weighted 7 lbs it was given in the Drs office for born prematurely at 28 weeks estation and prevention of 
RSV.The reporter said that, the patient's mother stated patient was hospitalized on p due to acid reflux, 
IGErRD (preferred term: gastrcoesophageal reflux disease). The patient was readmitted to the hospital on or GERD and Apnea(Preferred Term:Apnoea). Reporter could not provide the discharge date, the only ncent she was aware of was zantac started in the hospital. On 16-Aug-2013 as was in the doctor's office for a 
post hospitalization check-up. At that visit the apnea & GERD were under control, the patient remained on zantac 
after discharge from the hospital and she remained on anapnea monitor. As was due back in the doctor's office 
soon for her next Synagis injecticnThe action taken with Synagis was unknown.The outcome of the event of 
recurrent episode of GERD/reflux and apnea was unknown.The reporter assessed the event of recurrent episode 
of GERD/reflux and apnea to be serious with serious criteria of hospitalization.Summary of follow-up information 
received by AstraZeneca/Medimmune on 13-Sep-2013 from Health professional: New serious event apnea with 
seriousness criteria of hospitalization added. Event verbatim updated to recurrent episode of GERD/reflux. Dosage 
and indication added. Relevant history and concomitant disease added. New HCP information added.