serious / unlisted / related 
This case report from UNITED STATES was derived from medical literature on 12-SEP-2013 , article entitled 
"Seizure and vomiting with accidental ingestion of oil of RexalITM". It refers to a 4-year-old male patient who 
received RexalPM (camphor + phenol) orally instead of topically on the chest and experienced GENERALIZED 
TONIC-CLONIC SEIZURE AND VOMITING. 
Trade name was reported as RexalITM. For serious unlisted events BHC will collect all safety relevant information 
even if the suspect drug may not be a BHC product, and this report is entered in the pharmacovigiiance database 
due to company policy as it might convey new findings relevant for company products. 
Print Time: 16-JUL-2014 02:07 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 188 of 328 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
Case report: A 4 year-old-boy presented to the emergency department (ED) with a witnessed generalized tonic-
clonic seizure at home. He was being treated by his mother with Oil of RexallTM, an herbal supplement containing 
10.8 % camphor and 4.7 % phenol, 
dermally to his chest, and RobitussinTM (unknown formulation) for a cough. 
The boy's grandmother, mistaking the Oil of RexallTM for Robitussin, administered the patient one teaspoon of the 
preparation. Realizing her error, she washed his mouth out and administered one teaspoon of RobitussinTM. 
Five minutes later, the child vomited and had a generalized tonic-clonic seizure that resolved spontaneously. Upon 
arrival to the ED the patient was at his baseline mental status with normal vital signs. Venous blood gas, serum 
electrolytes, liver enzymes, coagulation profile and lipase were within normal limits. Serum acetaminophen and 
salicylate levels were undetectable. Chest x-ray and electrocardiogram were normal. He was observed overnight 
and discharged home without any further incident. 
Author's comment : 
Herbal drug containing phenol and camphor which can cause gastrointestinal (GI) and neurotoxicity with as little as 
one teaspoonful. These products may work synergistically to increase the likelihood of seizure. it is important to 
consider formulations that are available over the counter when evaluating toxicity due to herbal preparations.