AER 1285264 is a non-interventional program case, received on 02/Oct/2013 from a consumer and concerns a 48 
year old female patient who developed basal cell carcinoma, suspected irregular/cancer cells in bladder, 
neuropathic pain, weight loss, increase in pain, infection, missed dose of rituximab, multiple sclerosis, possible 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, lesions on brain (unk diagnosis), loss of balance, fatigue, dizziness, 
muscle spasm and weakness in legs while participating in (b) (6)  and treated with rituximab (Rituxan), 
cyclophosphamide and prednisone. 
The patient's medical history included raynaud's phenomenon, arthritis, fibromyalgia, pernicious anemia, 
accelerated menopause r/t and scleroderma (aka: systemic sclerosis) with interstitial lung disease. No concurrent 
illnesses were reported. Concomitant medications included nifedipine, warfarin sodium, rabeprazole, 
docosahexaenoic acid/eicosapentaenoic acid, venlafaxine hydrochloride, paracetamol, iron, calcium, vitamin D, 
sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim, alendronate sodium, buprenorphine hydrochloride and cyanocobalamin. Past drug 
included cyclophosphamide.
On an unspecified date, she started oral cyclophosphamide for one year and ended in 2009. On 21/Dec/2011, 
patient received premedication as diphenhydramine hydrochloride, paracetamol, methylprednisolone and started 
intravenous rituximab at 1000 mg on day 1 and day 15 for mixed connective tissue disease. On an unspecified 
date, she started intravenous cyclophosphamide and prednisone for an unknown indication for one year (route, 
dose, form and frequency not reported except route of cyclophosphamide). In July 2011, the therapy with 
cyclophosphamide was interrupted. In 2012, she developed basal cell carcinoma on her left upper thigh. It was 
diagnosed and removed in July/August of 2012. In April 2013, she developed suspected irregular/cancer cells in 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 244 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
bladder with comanifestation of hematuria, inflamed and compromised interior lining of bladder. She experienced 
hematuria, began seeing a urologist and a cytoscopy was performed. It was reported that while performing the 
cytoscopy, the surgeon discovered that the interior lining of her bladder has been compromised. She explained that
her surgeon told her that it was inflamed and could cause persistant hematuria. Her surgeon explained that 
cyclophosphamide often compromises the bladder. On an unknown date, she developed neuropathic pain with 
comanifestation of sensation of bruise on skin, skin sore to the touch. She explained that she felt as though skin 
was bruised with the sensation of a bruise and not the appearance, as it would be sore to the touch from head-to-
toe. She was treated with pregabalin (Lyrica) for neuropathic pain. It was stated that the neuropathic pain varies 
depending on the medication she took and while taking small doses of prednisone her neuropathic pain was 
worsened. She explained that pregabalin was added 3-4 months ago and was helping although the neuropathic 
pain not resolved completely. She had weight loss and lost 10lbs of weight. She thought it may be in relation to her 
decreased dose of prednisone. Her weight was changed from 137lbs (62.1kg) to 127lbs (57.6kg). On an unknown 
date, she developed increase in pain and infection. In Mar/2015, due to increase in pain her prednisone dose was 
increased. She advised that she is no longer taking sulfatrim and also that she had to take nitrofurantoin (Macrobid)
for infection since Jan/2015. On 04/Dec/2014, she received the most recent dose of rituximab. On 17/Jun/2015, 
she missed her rituximab infusion. The patient confirms that the reason for her missed infusion was due to other 
health concerns. She reported, that recently she had been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and at the moment, 
she required a lumbar puncture to rule out John Cunningham (JC) virus - PML (progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy) that could have been caused by the rituximab infusions.  It was reported that, the therapy 
with rituximab infusions was postponed until it was ruled out and the infusions was rescheduled from August 10th 
and 24th 2015, as she expect results by then. Patient reported that she was having new symptoms since 
/Jun/2015. The symptoms included extreme fatigue, weakness in legs, dizziness, loss of balance, muscle spasm. 
In //2015, patient had an nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) done which showed lesions on her brain with 
comanifestations suspected multiple sclerosis. Specialist was not sure if it's multiple sclerosis as lesions do not 
follow the normal pattern for multiple sclerosis. Patient had a second MRI for which results were pending.
At the time of this report, the outcome of the events basal cell carcinoma, suspected irregular/cancer cells in 
bladder, increase in pain, infection, multiple sclerosis, possible progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, lesions
on brain (unk diagnosis), loss of balance, fatigue, dizziness, muscle spasm and weakness in legs was unknown 
and the events neuropathic pain and weight loss were persisting. The therapy with rituximab was maintained and it 
was not known whether the therapy with cyclophosphamide and prednisone was ongoing or not.
The reporter did not assess the causal relationship between the events basal cell carcinoma, suspected 
irregular/cancer cells in bladder, neuropathic pain, weight loss, increase in pain, infection, multiple sclerosis, 
possible progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, lesions on brain (unk diagnosis), loss of balance, fatigue, 
dizziness, muscle spasm and weakness in legs with rituximab, cyclophosphamide and prednisone.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 245 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
The company assessed the causal relationship of event infection, lesions on brain (unk diagnosis), loss of balance, 
fatigue, dizziness, muscle spasm and weakness in legs as related with rituximab and as unrelated with 
cyclophosphamide and prednisone, while assessed the event increase in pain as unrelated with rituximab, 
cyclophosphamide and prednisone.  The company assessed, the causal relationship of the event possible 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as related to rituximab and multiple sclerosis as not related to 
rituximab. The company assessed, the events multiple sclerosis, possible progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy, lesions on brain (unk diagnosis), loss of balance, fatigue, dizziness, muscle spasm and 
weakness in legs as unrelated to cyclophosphamide and prednisone. The company assessed the causal 
relationship of event basal cell carcinoma, suspected irregular/cancer cells in bladder, neuropathic pain and weight 
loss as not related with rituximab, cyclophosphamide and prednisone. 
The company assessed, the events multiple sclerosis, possible progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, basal 
cell carcinoma, lesions on brain (unk diagnosis), loss of balance and suspected irregular/cancer cells in bladder as 
medically significant.
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 04/May/2015 (ROC 13 42356). Following information was added to the 
case: New drug (nitrofurantoin) used to treat adverse event (infection), sulfatrim was removed, adverse event 
details (increase in pain and infection) and event description.
Additional information was received on 09/Jul/2015. Following information has been added to the case 
(ROC1347530): Therapy dates, new event (missed dose) added.
Additional information was received on 15/Jul/2015, and the following information was added to the case: Source 
identification number (ROC1347958) was added.  The events multiple sclerosis and possible progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy were added.
Additional information was received on 08/Feb/2016 (ROC1370912): Event detail (lesions on brain, loss of balance,
fatigue, dizziness, muscle spasm and weakness in legs) and event description was updated.