AER 1299171 is non-interventional program case, received on 31/Oct/2013 from a physician via company 
representatives and concerns a 9 year old female patient (patient number:(b) (6) ) who developed respiratory 
distress, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder class in minor, status asthmaticus, violent behavior in school, lack of
coordination, abnormal weight gain, ankle pain, decreased strength, enuresis, eczema, pain unspecified site, knee 
pain, muscle weakness, impaired mobility, influenza, regular astigmatism, oppositional defiant disorder, acquired 
acanthosis nigricans, asthma with acute exacerbation and abdominal pain while participated in (b) (6)
(b) (6)  and was taking omalizumab (Xolair).
Past medical history included allergic rhinitis, sleep disorder, atopic dermatitis, pneumonia, GERD, attention deficit 
disorder with hyperactivity, unspecified delay in development, prematurity, depression, bipolar, insulin resistance, 
elevated liver enzymes, mental problems, bactrim allergy, fish allergy, grass allergy, behavioral problems, bactrim 
allergy, tree extract, peanut oil allergy, insect extract, fish oil allergy, reflux, infantile cerebral palsy unspecified, 
acute sinusitis- unspecified, allergic conjunctivitis, ranitidine allergy and penicillin allergy. Concomitant medications 
included desonide, aripiprazole, guanfacine hydrochloride, ibuprofen, ketotifen fumarate, hydrocortisone, 
omeprazole, clonidine, diphenhydramine hydrochloride, epinephrine, polyethylene glycol, salbutamol/salbutamol 
sulfate, xipamide, fluticasone propionate, montelukast sodium, fluticasone propionate/salmeterol, prednisolone and 
cetirizine hydrochloride. No concurrent conditions and past drugs were reported. The patient had a family history: 
Mother: asthma, allergic rhinitis, food allergy, HTN, blood problems, diabetes, heart disease, kidney problems, liver 
disease, mental illness, anxiety, obesity, high blood pressure, arthritis osteo; Brother: asthma, allergic rhinitis, 
childhood heart disease; Sister: asthma, allergic rhinitis, eczema, reflux gastroesophageal; Paternal uncle:
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 24 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Asthma, allergic rhinitis; Father: bipolar disorder, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, schizophrenia, HTN, reflux 
gastroesophageal; Paternal grandfather- schizophrenia; Maternal aunt: diabetes type 1; Maternal grandmother- 
blood problems and other Lupus, SLE, diabetes mellitus, heart attack before age 55, high cholesterol, hypertension.
On 14/Jan/2013, the patient started subcutaneous omalizumab injection (dose, frequency not reported) for asthma 
unspecified type but received only one dose. Later on, she started subcutaneous omalizumab injection 375 mg 
once in 2 weeks. In (b) (6)  (b) (6)  and (b) (6)  s,e was hospitalised 5-6 timed in emergency rooms (ER) or
urgent care center till (b) (6)  Number of courses of oral steroids 6, last in Aug/2013. Number of primary care 
office visits were 3-4 till Sep/2013. It was reported that, her mom noticed the wheezing when she arrived at school 
and she missed school 10-15 times. On (b) (6)  the patient had violent behavior at school, punching her 
teacher and throwing desks and was brought to the emergency department (ED) due to concern of her behavioral 
issues. In ED, she was noted to be in respiratory distress with decreased airation and inspiratory and expiratory 
wheezes. The decision was made to admit to hospital medicine. Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder class in 
minor was diagnosed on 28/Oct/2013. She had status asthmaticus triggered by strong emotion which later 
improved. On an unspecified date, she had lack of coordination, abnormal weight gain, ankle pain, decreased 
strength, enuresis, eczema, abdominal pain and other unspecified site, knee pain, muscle weakness, impaired 
mobility, influenza, asthma with acute exacerbation, regular astigmatism, ODD (oppositional defiant disorder) and 
acquired acanthosis nigricans. It was reported that patient discontinued the therapy due to personal issues in the 
home and the patient was unable to come in for treatments.
At the time of this report, the outcome of respiratory distress, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder class in minor, 
violent behavior in school, lack of coordination, abnormal weight gain, ankle pain, decreased strength, enuresis, 
eczema, pain unspecified site, knee pain, muscle weakness, impaired mobility, influenza, regular astigmatism, 
oppositional defiant disorder, acquired acanthosis nigricans, asthma with acute exacerbation and abdominal pain 
was not reported.
The physician did not provide causality of the events respiratory distress, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder 
class in minor, status asthmaticus, violent behavior in school, lack of coordination, abnormal weight gain, ankle 
pain, decreased strength, enuresis, eczema, pain unspecified site, knee pain, muscle weakness, impaired mobility, 
influenza, regular astigmatism, oppositional defiant disorder, acquired acanthosis nigricans, asthma with acute 
exacerbation and abdominal pain to the omalizumab.
The company assessed the events of respiratory distress, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder class in minor, 
status asthmaticus, violent behavior in school, lack of coordination, abnormal weight gain, ankle pain, decreased 
strength, enuresis, eczema, pain unspecified site, knee pain, muscle weakness, impaired mobility, influenza, 
regular astigmatism, oppositional defiant disorder, acquired acanthosis nigricans, asthma with acute exacerbation 
Print Time: 15-JUL-2016 02:45 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 25 of 250
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
and abdominal pain to the omalizumab as unrelated.
The company considered the event status asthmaticus as medically significant.
No further information was provided.
Additional information was received on 13/Nov/2014. The following information has been added to the case: 
Reporter added. Suspect drug information added (indication). Therapy ongoing status updated.
Follow up information was obtained from the Access Solutions Database on 13/Nov/2014: Protocol amended from 
(b) (6)  to (b) (6)  source identification number (1263699) added, omalizumab route, dose, form, 
frequency added, company causality updated for all events from unknwon to not related and event description 
updated.