AER 1302791 is a literature non intervention study summary case, received on 04/Nov/2013 from a healthcare 
professional and concerns a group of patients some of whom developed one or more of the following events: white 
0 000 cell count decreased, neutrophil count decreased, platelet count decreased, left ventricular systolic 
dysfunction, hyperglycemia, syncope, aortic aneurysm, anemia, anorexia, febrile neutropenia, bloody sputum, leg 
edema, systemic edema, transaminase elevation, blood bilirubin increased, osteonecrosis of the jaw, headache, 
vomiting, hypertension, acute lung injury, hypoxia, paronychia, pneumonia, heart failure, fatigue, pulmonary 
embolism, hemorrhoids, diarrhea and proteinuria while being analyzed in a study that evaluated the efficacy and 
safety of bevacizumab (BEV) chemotherapy for non-squamous (Non-Sq) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), with 
special attention to the patients who received BEV chemotherapy in multiple lines (multi-line cases). 
Between November 2009 and March 2012, 78 patients with advanced or recurrent NSCLC were treated with BEV 
chemotherapy at author's hospital. Among them, 32 patients underwent BEV chemotherapy in multiple lines (multi-
line cases} In the 78 patients, the median age was 65 years old. BEV was the first-line treatment in 26%, second-
line in 26% and third-line in 19% of cases. The patient background in the 32 multi-line patients was similar to that 
in the other 78 patients. The efficacy and safety of the BEV chemotherapy in these patients were analyzed. In 
order to distinguish these from regular treatment lines, the patients who first received BEV combination 
chemotherapy in first-line and second-line chemotherapy were labelled 1st BEV and 2nd BEV respectively. Safety 
was analysed based on CTCAE ver.4.0. Progression-free survival (PFS) was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier 
method. Observation was concluded on September 30, 2012. 
0  a  h neither tumor cavitation nor large vessel infiltration was observed when BEV combination therapy was 
initiated, brain metastases were observed in 7 subjects. In each of these, the brain metastatic foci were 1 cm or 
smaller without edema or Gamma Knife or whole brain irradiation neoadjuvant therapy had been given. BEV was 
administered at 15 mg/kg per dose at 3-4 week intervals in all subjects. Platinum doublet was the most frequently 
used 1st BEV combination regimen, accounting for 41 (53%) subjects, followed by docetaxel (DTX), used in 16 
(21%) subjects, tegafur-gimeracil-oteracil potassium combination drug (TS-1), used in 9 (12%) subjects, 
pemetrexed (PEM), used in 4 (5%) subjects, and other drugs (such as erlotinibin), used in 4 (5%) subjects. The 
breakdown of the combination regimens used in the multiple-line subjects was as follows: in first-line (1st 
BEV}platinum 0 0  et was used in 17 (53%) subjects, DTX in 8 (25%) subjects, and PTX in 3 (9%) subjects and in 
second-line (2nd BEV), DTX was most frequently used in 9 (28%) subjects, followed by platinum doublet in 5 (16%) 
Punt Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field Is blank, there is no data for that field Page 120 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
subjects, PTX in 1 (3%) subject and PEM in 1 (3%) subject. Other drugs such as gemcitabine (GEM) were used in 
10 (31%) subjects. The patients received BEV chemotherapy as per the protocol. the grade 3 (G3) or higher 
adverse events observed in all 78 subjects as well as in the 32 multiple-line subjects. While neutropenia was the 
most common form of hematological toxicity, it was managed through symptomatic treatment, such as reducing the 
dose of the chemotherapeutic agent, extending dosing intervals, and administering G-SCF, thereby allowing BEV to 
be continued without dose reduction. Grade >/= 3 hematological toxicities were observed in 50% of cases, and 
grade >1=3 non-hematological toxicities appeared in 32% of the patients. On the other hand, grade >1=3 
hematological toxicities and grade >/=3 non-hematological toxicities developed in 81% and 28% of cases, 
re u  ively, in the second-line BEV chemotherapy (2nd BEV) group. The grade >/= 3 hematological toxicities 
included white blood cell count decreased, neutrophil count decreased, platelet count decreased and anemia, while 
the grade >/= 3 non-hematological toxicities included left ventricular systolic dysfunction, hyperglycemia, syncope, 
aortic aneurysm, anorexia, febrile neutropenia, bloody sputum, leg edema, systemic edema, transaminase 
elevation, a bilirubin increased, osteonecrosis of the jaw, headache, vomiting, hypertension, acute lung injury, 
hypoxia, paronychia, pneumonia, heart failure, fatigue, pulmonary embolism, hemorrhoids, diarrhea and 
proteinuria. Febrile n 00 - a was observed more often in the 32 multi-line patients than in the 78 patients. 
Febrile neutropenia was the most frequently observed non-hematologic toxicity, observed in 4 (5.1%) subjects, 3 of 
which were multiple-line subjects. All were symptomatically treated for the adverse events and continued to receive 
treatment. BEV was discontinued for 2 subjects due to G3 bloody sputum and 2 subjects due to G3 proteinuria but 
only 1 of these was a multiple-line subject. The 2 subjects with G3 proteinuria experienced onset during the fifth 
course of 1st BEV and the third course of 2nd BEV. All patients, including those who experienced adverse events, 
improved when BEV was discontinued or the underlying disease treated and there were no mortalities. 
The authors described white blood cell count decreased, neutrophil count decreased, platelet count decreased, left 
ventricular systolic dysfunction, hyperglycemia, syncope, aortic aneurysm, anemia, anorexia, febrile neutropenia, 
bloody sputum, leg edema, systemic edema, transaminase elevation, blood bilirubin increased,-osteonecrosis of 
the jaw, headache, vomiting, hypertension, acute lung injury, hypoxia, paronychia, pneumonia, heart failure, fatigue, 
pulmonary embolism, hem o  o ds, diarrhea and proteinuria as the side effects of BEV chemotherapy. They 
concluded that the integration of BEV into cytotoxic chemotherapy was suggested to be effective and safe in 
subsequent lines of treatment. 
The company assessed the grade >/= 3 events of white 111o   00 cell count decreased, neutrophil count decreased, 
platelet count decreased, left ventricular systolic dysfunction, hyperglycemia, syncope, aortic aneurysm, anemia, 
anorexia, febrile neutropenia, 0  000y sputum, leg edema, systemic edema, transaminase elevation, blood bilirubin 
increased, osteonecrosis of the jaw, headache, vomiting, hypertension, acute lung injury, hypoxia, paronychia, 
pneumonia, heart failure, fatigue, pulmonary embolism, hemorrhoids, diarrhea and proteinuria as medically 
significant. 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 121  of 831 
FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
0 0  0 al information has been requested. 
Niki T, Okuyama T, Uchida J, Nishino K, Kumagai T, and lmamura F. 
Bevadzumab combination chemotherapy in clinical practice for advanced non non-squamous non-small cell lung 
cancer. 
Japanese Journal of Lung Cancer, 2013; 53 (3): 215-219. 
Additional information was received on 10/Dec/2013, following information was added to the case: 
The strength of Bevacizumab 16mg/kg per dose at 3-4 week intervals added. Suspect drugs erlotinib hydrochloride, 
docetaxel, gimeracil/oteracil potassiumftegafur, pemetrexed disodium and gemcitabine hydrochloride added. Study 
treatment and combination treatment information added to narrative. The outcome of all events updated to 
recovering/resolving. 
This case cross referenced with AER 1164729, 699531 and 1164727 (same literature article).