This spontaneous case, reported by a physician who contacted the company to report an adverse event, concerns 
a 62 year old male patient (ethnicity not reported). 
Medical history: pleural biopsy revealed malignant tumor infiltration requiring immunohisotolochemistry (IHC) 
differentiation -of mesothelioma/MI PLE from non-mucosecretory tubular adenocarcinoma, IHC epithelial mono-
phase pleural mesothelioma (Citrokeratin AE1/AE3 and 5/6 intense positive, vinentin positive, calretin intense 
positive and HBME positive. Concomitant medications: cisplatin, dexamethasone, folic acid, cyanocobalmaine. 
The patient received pemetrexed (Alimta) 500 mg/m2 intravenously with cisplatin, for the treatment of pleural 
mesothelioma beginning in Sep2011. On an unknown date, after starting pemetrexed, he experienced anemia, 
leukopenia, neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia. In Dec2011, after five cycles of pemetrexed, 
he experienced zoster to the thoracic area. On an unknown date, after 20 cycles of pemetrexed, he experienced 
hepatic cytolysis, considered serious by the company for medical significance. In Aug2013 (date not clarified), he 
experienced heart failure New York Heart Associate grade II and atrial fibrillation medium rate, both events 
considered serious by the company for medical significance. In Sep2013 (date not clarified), he had an Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (ECOG) grade one with no signs of cardiac decompression or 
thoracic pain. A chest x-ray showed reduction of the right pulmonary area following parietal and basal proliferation 
and an abdominal/chest computerized tomograph (CT) showed adenopathies, aortopulmonary window 
paratracheal pre and subcarinal, pleural vegetation extending to the diaphragmatic pleural and caused by the 
mesothelioma, pericardium thickening difficult to differentiate from the nodules of the mediastinal pleura, liver with 
no spot-like lesions, no abdominal ganglia with possible splenic metastasis (6.5 cm). The event possible splenic 
metastasis was considered serious by the company for medical significance. Treatment and outcome for the 
events was not reported. The status of pemetrexed was not reported. 
The reporting physician did not give an opinion of relatedness for the events.