AER1313786, is a clinical case, received on 03/Dec/2013 from a physician and concerns a 50 year old female 
patient (patient number: 12) who developed pneumonia, weakness, poor oral intake and worsening cough while 
enrolled in study LCCC0825 A multicenter Phase II trial of carboplatin, pemetrexed, and bevacizumab followed by 
pemetrexed and bevacizumab maintenance therapy in patients with a light or never smoking history. 
concomitant medications included furosemide, metoprolol succinate, morphine sulfate, oxycodone, guaifenesin, 
salbutamol/salbutamol sulfate, cyanocobalamin, ondansetron, esomeprazole, cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride, 
aspirin, clonazepam, promethazine hydrochloride, potassium chloride, duloxetine hydrochloride, biotin, lorazepam, 
meclizine hydrochloride, simvastatin, hydrochlorothiazide, dexamethasone, carboxymethylcellulose sodium, 
"Zosyn", "calcium/vitamin D", and "multivitamin". No medical history, concurrent illnesses or past drugs were 
reported. 
On 24/Jan/2011, the patient enrolled in the trial. She received therapy with bevacizumab 15 mg/kg, carboplatin 
AUC 6, pemetrexed disodium 500 mg/m2 and bevacizumab 15 mg/kg on day 1 of 21 day cycle (route and form not 
reported). This therapy was stopped on 11/Apr/2011. On 10/May/2011, she re-started intravenous bevacizumab 
1650 mg once in 21days (from not reported) and pemetrexed disodium 500mg/m2 once in 21 days (route and form 
not reported). On she developed pneumonia, weakness, poor oral intake and worsening cough 
which resulted in hospita isa ion. As per the patient report, she was being treated for pneumonia and treated with 
intravenous (IV) "Zosyn", intravenous vancomycin and intravenous doxycycline (Vibramycin). 041111111110 
chest X-ray revealed increased patchy opacity in right lung, possible infiltrate/pneumonia. Computed tomography 
angiography (CTA) was negative for pulmonary embolism. Blood culture negative during hospitalization. On 
02/Dec/2013, treatment intravenous antibiotics were discontinued and later, she started treatment with oral 
vancomycin and sulfamethoxazole (Bactrim). On she was discharged. 
At the time of this report, the outcome of the pneumonia, weakness, poor oral intake and worsening cough were not 
reported and therapy with bevacizumab and pemetrexed disodium was maintained. 
The physician assessed causal relationship between the event pneumonia and therapies bevacizumab, carboplatin 
and pemetrexed disodium as unrelated but did not provide any causal relationship between the events weakness, 
poor oral intake and worsening cough and therapies bevacizumab, carboplatin and pemetrexed disodium. 
Print Time: 02-SEP-2014 01:09 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 501 of 831 
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information 
No further information was provided. 
Additional information was received on 27/Feb/2014. Following information has been added to the case: Therapy 
details of bevacizumab, carboplatin and pemetrexed disodium (first therapy) updated. Laboratory tests computed 
tomography angiography (CTA), chest X-ray and blood cultures. Discharge date. Treatment therapy of adverse 
events updated.