AER 1322180, is a spontaneous case, received on 18/Dec/2013, from a hematologist via a company representative
and concerns a 57 year old male patient who developed JC virus infection, progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy and later died due to unknown cause whilst treated with rituximab (MabThera).
The patient's medical history and concurrent conditions were not reported. Concomitant medications included 
fludarabine and cyclophosphamide. Past drugs were not reported.
On an unspecified date, the patient started therapy with rituximab for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (dosing 
regimen not reported).  After receiving therapy with rituximab for a long time, he was at a very progressed line and 
developed JC virus infection which led to development of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. A neurologic
examination and brain biopsy was taken (findings not reported). Therapy with rituximab was discontinued until the 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 299 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
end of the examination. On an unspecified date, the patient died due to unknown cause. It was not reported if 
autopsy was performed or not.
At the time of the death, the events of JC virus infection and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy were 
persisting.
The physician did not provide a causality assessment for death NOS, JC virus infection and progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy with rituximab.
The physician assessed JC virus infection and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy as medically significant.
Further information has been requested.
Followup information was received on 27/Feb/2014. The following information was added to the case: Event (death 
NOS).
Followup information was received on 15/Sep/2014. The following information was added to the case: concomitant 
medications: cyclophosphamide and fludarabine
AER 1461096 was identified as a duplicate of AER 1322180. All information from AER 1461096 was added to AER 
1322180, which remains the active case.