This literature case report, reported by physician regarding a phase II study article, concerns adult patient (age 
between 34 to 84 year-old) of unknown gender and origin, concerns one patient of three. 
history: advanced NSCLC (non-small cell lung cancer) with evidence of progression after first-line therapy; 
Eastern C ab ,.a ative 0  ogy Group performance status (PS) of 0 or 1. It was denied prior: symptomatic 
live heart failure, active coronary artery disease as myocardial infarction or unstable angina, 
cerebrovascular accident or transient ischemic accident, uncontrolled hypertension, hernoptysis, cavitary pulmonary 
lesions, history of  b  boernbolism or requirement for full-dose therapeutic anticoagulation. Concomitant 
medications: not provided. It was unknown patient received supplementation of vitamin B12 and folic acid. 
Beginning on unknown date between Apr-2008 and Sep-2011, patient received pemetrexed (unknown 
manufacturer) e  II  g/m2 on day 1 in combination with sunitinib 37.5mg daily. One cycle was considered 21 days, 
as s line-therapy for treatment of advanced NSCLC. Computed tomography scans of the chest and upper 
abdomen were obtained at baseline and at 6-week intervals. On unknown date, after starting the study drugs, 
patient experienced pneumonia in setting of neutropenia which led the patient to death. Autopsy results were not 
provided. Further information, corrective treatment and status of study drug at the moment of death were unknown. 
Author related the events to study drugs. 
Literature Citation: Heist RS; Wang X; Hodgson L; Otterson GA; Stinchcombe TE; Gandhi L; Villalona-Calero MA; 
Watson R; Vokes EE; Socinski MA. A randomized phae II Study to Assess the Efficacy of Pemetrexed or Sunitinib 
or Pemetrexed Plus Sunitinib in the Second-Line Treatment of Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. Journal of 
cic 0 y. 2014; 9(2) 214. 
Addditional Citation: 48th Annual Society of Clinical Oncology. Jun 1-5, 2012, Chicago, IL. Journal. 
This case is cross referenced to US201401008345 and US201401008346.