This spontaneous report was initially received from a consumer in the United States via Acorda affiliate Biogen Idec
(2013BI037013) on 31-May-2013. Follow-up information was received from a health care provider (physician) on 
15-Jul-2013.  Additionally, follow-up information was received from the patient on 15-Nov-2013.  Follow-up 
information was received from a consumer (patient) on 30-Dec-2013. Follow-up information was received 19-Feb-
2014 from a consumer (patient) via Acorda affiliate Biogen Idec (2014-322404) with additional information received 
from the consumer (patient) on 24-Feb-2014. Follow-up information was received from a consumer (patient) on 23-
Apr-2014.  Additional information was received from the physician's office on 02-Jul-2015 in the form of chart notes 
from office visits from 27-Jan-2015 and 30-Apr-2015, which upgraded the case to serious.  Additional information 
was received from the physician on 07-Aug-2015.  A 74-year-old male patient with multiple sclerosis (MS) 
experienced Progression of multiple sclerosis; multiple cervical/ thoracic cord lesions/MS accelerated/ attacks/ lost 
ability to walk/weakness (legs,R hand)/hard to hold himself erect, ataxia/dysesthesias/spasticity/paraparesis 
(medically significant), hypersensitive characterized by tingling on right side with muscles under his arm to waist, 
torso, legs and hips, middle of body weakness, flu-like feeling in his stomach, flu symptoms, pain while dressing 
himself / pain, stomach pain from the waistline down to legs, loses track of time, felt unusual strength / helping him 
in his upper extremities, neurogenic bladder / bladder has had symptoms of urgency with near accidents / bladder 
dysfunction storage in type with urge incontinence, JCV virus test positive, tinnitus, possible aspirin toxicity, right 
hand sensory disturbances / dupuytren's contracture, vision difficulties, ankle swelling, elevated non-fasting blood 
glucose, bowel urgency, cognitive dysfunction, difficulty getting words out, insomnia, fear of falling, C5-6 with a left 
foraminal stenosis that was more pronounced and with possible compression of the left C6 nerve root-, T4 
Sebaceous cyst, Rubor of feet, Finger to nose test showed action tremor, Rapid alternating movements (RAM) 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 331 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
were slow bilaterally, left worse than right and got worse while on Ampyra and drug dose omission. The patient also
reported that he went downhill and became weaker while he was off Ampyra.
The patient's past medical history included MS diagnosed 18-Oct-2012 (described as progressive-relapsing and 
relapsing-remitting, also reported as diagnosed in Dec-2012 by the patient), being slightly overweight, fatigue, gait 
disturbance, foot drop of his left foot diagnosed 18-Oct-2012, cervical myelopathy diagnosed 18-Oct-2012, a viral 
infection, an allergy to cat hair extract, and swelling in his feet.  The patient's baseline status was described as a 
male patient who had difficulty with his left leg (described as when climbing, he would have to manually life his left 
leg up) for more than 20 years.  By 1999, the patient noted that he was dragging his left foot while running a 
marathon.  In summer of 2006, the patient had a viral infection that waxed and waned for up to 4 months.
Afterwards, the patient could not lift his left leg well and the patient had to stop his regular running activity.  The 
patient had MS with main disability involving severe thoracic myelopathy undiagnosed for up to 20 years, with a 
clear second attack in 2006 and again in 2012 with only partial recovery.  Family history included heart failure 
(mother) and colon cancer (father).  It was noted that the patient had never smoked and did not use alcohol or 
drugs.  Concomitant medications at time of the event onsets included Avonex 30mg intramuscularly once a week 
from 11-Feb-2013 through 01-Apr-2013 (also reported as May-2013) for MS, an unspecified vitamin, Aspirin 
(acetylsalicylic acid) prescribed at 325 mg orally three times daily, but the patient was taking 6 tablets daily, 
gabapentin 300 mg tablets 3 tablets in the morning, 2 tablets at noon, and 2 tablets at bedtime for pain and 
dysesthesia, Vitamin D3 10,000 units daily, Vitamin E, Vitamin C, Centrum Silver, Tylenol PM (diphenhydramine 
hydrochloride / paracetamol) 2 25-500 mg tablets nightly, fish oil two dosage forms orally daily, and Lamisil 
(terbinafine hydrochloride) 250 mg orally daily. Excluding Avonex, the other concomitant medications were ongoing.
Ampyra (fampridine) was started on 02-Nov-2012 (also reported as Feb/Mar-2013) at 10mg orally twice daily (every
12 hours) for MS and walking (to improve walking in MS).  Additionally, on 11-Feb-2013, the patient also received a 
co-suspect drug, Avonex 30 mg given intramuscularly weekly for MS.  Additionally, on 20-May-2013 (also reported 
as an unspecified date in approximately Jun-2013), the patient also received co-suspect drug, Tysabri 
(natalizumab) 300 mg via infusion for MS. Aspirin (ASA) was also consider co-suspect started at 325 mg tid for pain
(therapy dates not provided).
The patient reported the following events: left leg weakness (onset: not provided), right sided weakness (onset: not 
provided), progression of MS (onset: unspecified date in Nov-2012), hypersensitive characterized by tingling on 
right side with muscles under his arm to waist, torso, legs and hips (onset: unspecified date in 2013), weakness on 
middle of his body (onset: unspecified date in 2013), flu-like feeling in his stomach (onset: unspecified date in Feb 
2013) and weakness in his right leg for a day (onset: unspecified date in Feb 2013). Treatment included gabapentin
for the event hypersensitive characterized by tingling on right side with muscles under his arm to waist, torso, legs 
and hips and progression of MS. The patient was not hospitalized.  The patient reported that early on he had 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 332 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
forgotten to reorder a refill of Ampyra and was without it for three days (exact dates unknown). Without Ampyra the 
patient experienced weakness after the three days. The patient reported that the weakness in his limbs resolved 
after he received and restarted the Ampyra. On 20-May-2013 (also reported as approximately Jun-2013), the 
patient was started on Tysabri. On an unspecified date in Nov-2013, the patient reported that he stopped taking 
Ampyra for five days because he was experiencing progressive weakness. After five days, the patient's weakness 
worsened and he resumed taking Ampyra. On an unspecified date, the patient also reported that he did an 
"experiment" with the approval of his doctor and stopped taking Ampyra for seven days (also reported as five days) 
a couple of months ago to see if he could manage without it and to see if the limb weakness would reoccur. The 
patient stated he went downhill, becoming weaker, and the limb weakness reoccurred. The patient restarted 
Ampyra and had seen an improvement in the limb weakness, but he was not fully recovered and stated that he was
not where he was prior to discontinuing Ampyra. The patient also stated that Avonex did not help him and he had 
gotten worse while taking it with Ampyra. He reported that while on Avonex, he experienced flu symptoms that 
would last 24 hours (the patient could not clarify what the symptoms were). The patient also reported that over the 
past six to eight months, it had been hard for him to hold his body erect while sitting and standing. Because of this, 
he had been experiencing pain while dressing himself and stomach pain from the waistline down to his legs while 
sitting. Additionally, over the past five months, the patient has been experiencing apprehension to walk down the 
stairs due to fear of falling. He also reported being out of energy as he ascended the stairs. The patient required 
physical assistance by his son or wife as he walked up or down the stairs. It was not reported if the patient received 
any treatment for the remainder of the events. Upon follow-up received on 23-Apr-2014, the patient again reported 
that sometime in the past (exact date unknown) he missed three days of Ampyra because he ran out of the 
medication. He began to feel unusual weakness after missing the medication for three days. Approximately four 
months ago, the patient stopped Ampyra for five days as an "experiment." He stated that he was very weak after 
missing the medication for five days. He stated, "My body had become quite dependent on Ampyra and I could not 
even leave my house." After resuming Ampyra, the patient reported that his weakness improved, but was still 
present. He reported that he was not quite recovered. The patient also noted that he rarely leaves his house and 
that he loses track of time. The patient reported that he was originally on Avonex and Ampyra. Avonex had been 
discontinued approximately six months or so after it was started because the patient was experiencing flu like 
symptoms and his "MS really accelerated." The patient stated that he had a bad reaction to Avonex. He stated that 
he was weaker, first in his left leg, then in his midsection, and finally in his right leg. Following the discontinuation of 
Avonex, the patient was placed on Tysabri (date unknown). He reported that he felt unusual strength originally with 
the combination of Tysabri and Ampyra.
Additional information received from the physician's office on 02-Jul-2015 in the form of office visit notes from 27-
Jan-2015 and 30-Apr-2015 provided the following information:
An MRI of the brain from Oct-2013 showed a mild convex left thoracic scoliosis.  Vertebral body heights and 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 333 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
alignment were preserved.  There was multilevel disc degeneration.  No significant central canal or foraminal 
stenosis was evident in the thoracic spine.  A T2/STIR hyperintense demyelinating focus was identified within the 
central ventral portion of the cord at the C7-T1 level, measuring 14 mm in cranial caudal length.  There was 
associated cord thinning, similar to previous MRIs.  There was no associated enhancement.  There was a fusiform 
T2/STIR hyperintense lesion in the central left portion of the cord at the T5-T6 level, measuring 12 mm and cranial 
caudal length, not associated with enhancement, which appeared similar to previous MRIs.  No new demyelinating 
focus was identified in the thoracic cord.  The impression was there were stable demyelinating foci within the 
thoracic cord at the C7-T1 and T5-T6 levels with no associated mass effect or enhancement.  No new 
demyelinating focus was identified.  No significant central canal or foraminal stenosis was identified.
An MRI of the brain and thoracic spine from Oct-2014 showed a right C2 lateral lesion that was slightly more 
pronounced on the sagittal views.  This was only visualized on axial T2 sequences and appeared similar.  There 
was a right lateral C3-4 cord lesion that was similar.  The largest lesion appears to be at C7-T1 and appeared to 
involve the left hemicord with craniocaudal dimensions of approximately 17 mm.  This was slightly longer than on 
the previous MRI scan.  There was no evidence for intradural extramedullary lesions.  Craniocervical relationship 
was normal.  Degenerative changes were again observed and grossly similar as well.  These were most significant 
at C5-6 with a left foraminal stenosis that was more pronounced and with possible compression of the left C6 nerve
root.  Post contrasted sequences demonstrated abnormal enhancement of the right lateral C3-4 lesion up to the 
level of the mid C3 level.  This was best seen on the sagittal post contrasted sequences.  There were no 
comparison films for the thoracic spine MRI.  The C7-T1 lesion extending down to T1-2 was better seen on this 
portion of the study and appeared to involve the anterior, lateral, and posterior left cord to varying degrees.  There 
was a left lateral cord lesion at T5-6.  There was a small thoracic cord syrinx that begins at approximately T7.
There was a left lateral cord lesion at T9-10.  There was no evidence for intradural extramedullary lesions.  There 
were no significant degenerative changes or stenosis. The post contrasted sequences demonstrated faint 
enhancement of the T9-10 lesion.  The other lesions appeared not to enhance.  There was a cutaneous and 
subcutaneous lesion posterior to T4 that likely represented a sebaceous cyst.
A vitamin D test in October was normal at 64.2.  On 16-Oct-2014 a methylmalonic acid test was normal. Laboratory
tests done in Nov-2014 showed complete blood count (CBC) and comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) were 
normal except a non-fasting glucose of 146.  A urinalysis on 22-Nov-2014 was without cells to suspect infection.
It was noted in the baseline information at the 27-Jan-2015 office visit that the patient had non-specific white matter
changes and on repeat imaging ischemic white matter changes on his brain MRI with multiple lesions in the cervical
and thoracic spinal cord.  The patient was treated empirically with a couple of intravenous Solumedrol 
(methylprednisolone sodium succinate) without improvement.  It was noted that the patient had been treated with 
Solumedrol in the past, which "definitely helped" further described as feeling clearer mentally and better ambulation.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 334 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
 The baseline status as of 27-Jan-2015 also noted that the patient used a cane to get around the house and a 
wheelchair to go long distances.  The patient noted that his baseline leg weakness had steadily declined, 
punctuated by "attacks." It was reported his bladder had symptoms of urgency just this year, with near accidents. 
About 3-4 months ago, he developed relatively sudden (within a week, three to four months prior to 27-Jan-2015) 
severe dysesthesias in his mid-trunk on the left side, with hyperesthesia in both legs. It was noted that the patient 
denied any vesicles on his trunk and any symptoms above his trunk. Gabapentin has helped the symptoms, but it 
has never left.  He admits trouble with far vision (but easily corrected with glasses).
Interval history for the 27-Jan-2015 office visit noted A JC virus test in Apr-2013 was positive with an index of 1.38. 
A repeat JC virus test in May-2014 was 0.74. The patient had received 3 days of intravenous Solumedrol, instead of
5 doses due to transportation problems.  While receiving Solumedrol, the patent was able to walk up his stairs, 
though the patient's pain returned as well.  His right hand strength had declined considerably with that attack.  The 
discomfort did recede a bit after the steroids. He also takes ASA up to 1500mg daily, which helps his pain. He 
admits to some tinnitus on the current dose of ASA, which could reflect toxicity.
It was noted in the record on 27-Jan-2015 that new symptoms included hissing in his ears , coming and going. 
Worsening symptoms included right hand more sensory disturbances, and Dupuytren contracture.  The physician 
described the following during exam: fatigue; weakness involving both legs and the right hand; severe 
dysesthesias; hypersensitivities in his mid-trunk on the left side. Bladder dysfunction which was described as 
storage in type with urge incontinence, bowel urgency, visual loss described as minor fluctuating blurring of vision. 
Cervical myelopathy, thoracic myelopathy, ataxia especially with his trunk (also described as feels as though he is 
falling over), cognitive dysfunction described as only when the patient is very fatigued, spasticity especially in the 
morning, pain described as trunk dysesthesias (slightly better on gabapentin), Dysarthria noted as "no" though 
trouble getting words out when he is tired, insomnia managed well with Tylenol PM (also reported as Aleve PM), 
hearing loss may be due to ASA toxicity.  On an unspecified date, the patient was also diagnosed as being hard of 
hearing.  On an unspecified date, the patient was diagnosed with ankle swelling.    On 09-May-2013, the patient 
was diagnosed with gait disturbance due to paraparesis from MS. 
The patient's exam showed that the patient was awake, alert, in no acute distress, with slightly overweight body 
habitus.  He had rubor of the feet bilaterally, left worse than right.  The patient was oriented x3 with fluent 
appropriate speech; no dysarthria or aphasia, affect broad without evidence of depression.  The patient's disc 
margins were sharp without pallor.  Visual fields were intact to confrontation bilaterally, pupils briskly reactive with 
no afferent pupillary defect (APD).  Extraocular movements were intact, without nystagmus or exotropia.  His face 
was symmetric with normal facial sensation to light touch.  His hearing was impaired to finger rub bilaterally, worse 
on the right.  Palate raise was symmetric, shoulder shrug was 5/5 bilaterally, and tongue was midline.  There was 
no drift of either upper extremity with arms extended, though there was pronation / drift in the right upper extremity. 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 335 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Upper muscle strength, the upper limbs (R/L) were: 5-/5 deltoids, 5/5 biceps, 5/5 triceps, 5-/5 wrist extensors, and 
4-/5 interossel.  Lower limbs (R/L) were: 0/0 iliopsoas, 1/1+ hamstrings, 1/1+ quadriceps, 1/3 gastrocs, 1/1+ anterior
tibials.  His muscle tone was normal in the upper extremities, but has increased tone in both legs.  Deep tendon 
reflexes were 3+ biceps, 2+ triceps, 2+ brachioradials, 1+ knees (dampened by increased tone), 1+ ankles (likely 
dampened by increased tone), ankles with plantar response mute bilaterally.  The patient's finger to nose test 
showed action tremor but no past pointing in both upper extremities.  Rapid alternating movements (RAM) were 
slow bilaterally, left worse than right, with some trunk instability while sitting.  Heel to shin could not be tested due to
bilateral weakness and gait was not tested due to patient's inability to walk. Sensory exam showed 
hypersensitivities in trunk and all the way down both legs, up to T4 upon light touch. Hypersensitivity to temperature
in both legs and trunk up to T4. Vibratory exam showed reduction bilaterally in lower extremities, left worse than 
right up to left ankle.
It was noted the patient felt better on Tysabri, though his leg strength had slipped in both lower extremities, which 
was considered to be consistent with the progression of MS and active relapses.  He responded well to Solumedrol 
for enhancing cervical lesion in Nov-2014. There was concern at the office visit from 27-Jan-2015 regarding the 
formation of Tysabri antibodies, which were negative. The patients last JCV titer was below the significant danger 
threshold (below 0.9), but concerning for PML long term. Another JC virus titer and MRI  had been ordered, but the 
results were not available as of 30-Apr-2015. The patient was told to continue Ampyra as it had been helping his 
upper extremities and to continue oxybutynin 10 mg daily for bladder management. Between 27-Jan-2015 and 30-
Apr-2015: the patient's dose of aspirin was reduced and the tinnitus improved; the patient's gabapentin therapy was
increased which helped the dysesthesias but not they did not completely resolve.
On the 30-Apr-2015 office notes no new symptoms were reported and ongoing symptoms were noted as non-
worsening. Bladder dysfunction was noted with near accidents managed with lifestyle and a diuretic, also described
as neurogenic bladder with no history of retention. Bowel dysfunction was noted with bowel urgency and two 
accidents due to difficulty getting to the commode and getting his pants down. The patient's exam showed the 
following differences from the 27-Jan-2015 exam: The upper extremity muscle strength (R/L) was: 5-/5 deltoids, 6-
/5 biceps, 5/5 triceps, 5-/5 wrist extensors, and 3+/5 interossel.  Lower limb muscle strength (R/L) was: 0/0 
iliopsoas, 1/1+ hamstrings, 3-/3 quadriceps, 1/3 gastrocs, and 1/2+ anterior tibials.  The patient's deep tendon 
reflexes were 1+ biceps, 1+ triceps, 1+ brachioradials, 1+ knees (dampened by increased tone), 1+ ankles (likely 
dampened by increased tone) with plantar response mute bilaterally. [See attached narrative document]