FUThis solicited report was initially received from a consumer (patient) in the United States on 04-Oct-2013.
Follow-up information was provided by the consumer (patient) on 31-Oct-2013.  Follow-up information was received
from the patient on 17-Mar-2014.  Follow up information was received from an HCP on 14-Apr-2014. Follow-up 
information was received from a healthcare professional (physician) on 23-May-2014. Based on information 
received upon this follow-up, this case was upgraded as serious. A 56-year old female patient, with multiple 
sclerosis (MS) experienced walking got worse / walking has become more difficult, seems like her legs got heavy 
and weak, were numb and tingling, and stiff / not lifting her legs as well, using her wheelchair more often, and felt 
shaky with flu-like symptoms while off Ampyra.  The patient also stated that she was taking Ampyra earlier than 
every 12 hours one time. It was reported that the patient was positive for the JC Virus antibody (medically 
significant), experienced a worsening of her MS symptoms / exacerbation rebound after stopping Tysabri and 
discontinued Ampyra as it was not helping her gait.
The patient's past medical history included MS (many years ago), gait disturbance (several years ago), stent in 
heart, nerve damage due to reflex sympathetic dystrophy (many years ago), three mini strokes (many years ago), 
high blood pressure, and high cholesterol.  Family history was not included.  Concomitant medications at time of 
events onset included:  oxybutynin 10 mg started about four years ago, metoprolol Er 50 mg started about four 
years ago, simvastatin 40 mg started about four years ago, Plavix 75 mg,clopidogrel 75 mg started about four years
ago,  Tecfidera 240 mg started about one and half years ago for MS prophylaxis, calcium, Aspirin 325 mg, lisinopril 
10 mg started about four years ago, and fish oil.  The concomitant medications were reported as ongoing.  The 
frequency, routes of administration, and indications for use were not provided.
Ampyra (fampridine) was started beginning of summer 2013 (also discrepantly reported as Apr-2012) at 10 mg 
orally every 12 hours (twice a day) for walking related to MS. Additionally, Tysabri (natalizumab) was reported as a 
co-suspect medication, starting on an unspecified date, monthly for an unknown indication. The complete dosing 
information was not provided.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 340 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
About three weeks ago (Sep 2013), the patient ran out of medication.  The patient stated that she noticed that her 
walking had gotten worse/ walking had become more difficult after about one week of being out of Ampyra 
(unspecified date in 2013).  The patient characterized her difficulty walking by saying that her legs felt heavy and 
weak, were numb and tingling, and had stiffness.  The patient stated that her walking had never been very good but
it seemed like her legs had gotten heavy and stiff.  The patient stated that she was not lifting her legs well 
(unspecified date in 2013).  The patient did not receive any treatment for the events. The patient reported that she 
re-started Ampyra treatment on 21-Oct-2013.  On an unspecified date in mid Dec-2013, the patient ran out of 
Ampyra due to re-enrollment issues.  The patient reported that she was now using her wheelchair more often and 
felt that her walking was getting worse.  The patient also reported that she was taking Ampyra earlier than every 12 
hours one time and felt shaky with flu-like symptoms but was not hospitalized or seen by her physician.  The patient
reported that these symptoms lasted about a day and half and then resolved. On 23-May-2014, the physician 
reported that the patient had no problems with the product's appearance, smell, taste, condition or packaging. He 
reported that there were no laboratory findings and that he was unaware of any renal test prior to starting Ampyra. 
The physician also reported that the patient's renal function prior to starting Ampyra was normal. It was unknown if 
the patient visited the emergency room due the events; the physician did report that the patient was not hospitalized
due to the events and the events were not fatal. The physician further stated that the patient experienced a 
worsening of her MS symptoms after she was discontinued from Tysabri because of a positive JC Virus Antibody. 
The physician reported that it had been recognized that there was exacerbation rebound after stopping Tysabri. He 
also reported that none of this was related to Ampyra. He stated that Ampyra was stopped simply because it was 
not helping the patient's gait. It was reported the through most of this, the patient was seeing a different neurologist.
No further information was provided. 
The outcome of felt shaky with flu-like symptoms had resolved. The outcome of a positive JC Virus Antibody, 
worsening of her MS symptoms / exacerbation rebound and Ampyra was not helping her gait was unknown. The 
physician reported the outcome of seems like her legs got heavy / not lifting her legs as well, seems like legs got 
stiff, legs weak, legs numb, felt shaky, legs tingling and walking got worse / walking has become more difficult was 
recovered with sequelae. The physician reported that the outcome of flu-like symptoms and taking Ampyra earlier 
than 12 hours one time was unknown.
The last dose of Ampyra was taken in mid Dec-2013 because the patient ran out of medication. The physician 
reported that Ampyra was discontinued on an unspecified date as it was not helping her gait. The physician also 
reported that Tysabri therapy was discontinued because of the positive JC Virus Antibody.
The patient stated that the causality between Ampyra and the events seems like her legs got heavy/ not lifting her 
legs as well, seems like legs got stiff, walking got worse/ walking has become more difficult as not reported.  The 
patient stated the causality between Ampyra and the rest of the events as possible. The physician reported that 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 341 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
none of this was related to Ampyra.
Follow-up information was provided by the consumer (patient) on 31-Oct-2013 which included treatment 
information, event outcomes, and Ampyra stop date and restart date.
Follow-up information received from the patient on 17-Mar-2014 provided new events, additional medical history, 
events outcomes, discrepancy of Ampyra start date, Ampyra stop date, doses and start dates of concomitant 
medications, and action taken with Ampyra.  The information has been incorporated into the narrative.
Follow up information was received from a HCP office on 14-Apr-2014. It was reported that the patient had not 
been seen by their MD since FEB2013.  New MD information was provided.
Follow-up information received from the physician on 23-May-2014 included: Ampyra action taken, a new suspect 
drug, additional medical history information, renal function prior to Ampyra, event outcome, event causality, 
indication, new events and outcome of suspect drug. Based on information received this follow-up, this case was 
upgraded as serious.