Case received from GILEAD:
This 66-year old Caucasian female subject with chronic lymphocytic leukemia
(diagnosed in 2011, grade A) was enrolled in a study conducted by Gilead - (b)
The subject was in the ofatumumab arm
and received ofatumumab 2 g intravenously weekly from 10 December 2013.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 370 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Medical conditions at the time of the event included anemia, cervical
lymphadenopathy, lymphocytosis and neutropenia.  Concomitant medications
included valaciclovir hydrochloride, Eprex, Sulphamethoxazole with
trimethoprim and filgrastim.
On (b) (6) ,(b)(6)  days after the start of ofatumumab, the subject
developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.  The subject had
described a 10-day moderate decrease of the strength of her right upper limb,
without any neurologic symptoms.  The event was clinically significant (or
requiring intervention).  Treatment with ofatumumab was discontinued on 30
January 2014.  The event was unresolved at time of reporting.  The
investigator considered that there was a reasonable possibility that the
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy may have been caused by ofatumumab
and that the event was possibly due to the disease under study.
Follow up information received on 20 June 2014:
Medical conditions included pancytopenia, large mass in loft flank (18x13) in
2013, invasion of bone marrow (2013) and major splenomagaly ((b) (6) ).
Prior treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia included
fludarabine/cyclophosphamide/rituximab in 2013 (disease became refactory and
pancytopenia developed).
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 371 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On(b) (6)  a cerebral magnetic resonance imaging result showed some
present shaped and subcortical lesions suggestive related PNEL.  The hospital
physician specified the results as a hyper -signal from the subcortical white
matter with posterior parieto-fronto-occipital predominance forming a
sub-cortical U, strongly suggestive of progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy (PNEL).
On (b) (6) , the subject had described a 10-day moderate decrease of
strength of her right upper limb (also described as a feeling of awkwardness
with onset in (b) (6) ), without any neurological symptoms, that
progressively worsened.  Treatment with ofatumumab was stopped. 
On (b) (6)  a lumbar puncture revealed normal cytology, however a
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) result was positive for John Cunningham virus
(JC) and PNEL was confirmed. 
On unspecified dates, antiviral treatment (not further specified) was
initiated but was not efficacious.  Treatment was replaced with intravenous
(IV) immunoglobulins (not further specified), but the subject continued to
deteriorate, with right facial paralysis, right homonymous lateral
hemi-anopsis, and a reduction in muscle strength and sensitivity of the upper
limb.  The subject was withdrawn from the study on an unspecified date.
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 372 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
On (b) (6)  according to the hospital physician, the last injection of
Clairyg (immunoglobulin) was administered, treatment was stopped as the
subject was showing no improvement. At that time, she had problems
swallowing, disorders of balance, involvement of the right limbs (upper and
lower), facial paralysis, aphasia, and inversion of the nyc thermal cycle. 
The subject was readmitted to hospital.
On (b) (6)  treatment was initiated with Imovane (zopiclone).
On(b) (6)  the subject was hospitalised to receive palliative care due
to neurological deterioration that was secondary to progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy.  She had experienced a fall on the same day, just prior
to admission and had facial injury, fraction of unspecified bones, and
bilateral peri-orbital and left shoulder hematomas.  At admission, the
subject was apyretic and WHO4.  The neurogical examination revealed Glasgow
15, total right hemiplegia, normal on the left, right facial paralysis,
sphasia but understanding preserved, disorders of swallowing.  The physical
examination revealed a painless, but very large intra-abdominal mass,
enlarged sub-maxillary lymph nodes on both sides, and bilateral enlarged
axillary lymph nodes.  She had no dyspnea. 
During hospitalisation, treatment was initially initiated with Tranxene
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 373 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
(clorazepate) but was then replaced with Lexomil (bromazepam) due to
sleepiness.  The subject was very anxious.  She was placed on subcutaneous
hydration (not further specified) and was initially stable, with no
complaints of pain.
On (b) (6)  the subject became very agitated at night and day, was in
great anguish and was much more disoriented.  Treatment was initiated with
Ipnovel (midazolam) 0.2mg /hour and morphine 20mg/24 hours.
On (b) (6)  the subject was still very agitated, midazolam was
increased to 0.5mg/hour but there was no improvement or change.  Therefore,
midazolam was further increased to 1mg/hour with added Scopolamine (hyoscine)
3 vials/24 hours, due to the subject being very clogged up.  At the end of
the day, the midzolam dose was further increased to 1.5mg/hour with boluses
of 2mg and morphine of 30 mg/24 hours.  The subject was then able to sleep
and appeared to be calm and not in pain.
On (b) (6)  the subject died due to complication of her multifocal
leukoencephalopathy secondary to immunosuppression in a context of CLL and
treatment with ofatumumab.  Action taken with ofatumumab was discontinued. 
The investigator assessed the event as related to ofatumumab and not related
to a study procedure. 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 374 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
Follow up information received on 13Aug2014:
Stop date of ofatumumab was revised from 30 January 2014 to 22 January 2014.
Follow up information received on 04 September 2014: 
Previously reported treatment medications -imovane and Clairyg- also reported
as concomitant medications and concomitant medication end dates provided. No
new clinically significant information.  Autopsy confirmed as not performed
and study drug stop date updated to 30 January 2014 (previously 22 January