A neurologist reported that a female patient (age unknown) on TYSABRI (unknown dose, UNK, UNK) for an 
unknown indication from unknown date to unknown date was hospitalized from an unknown date to an unknown 
date for possible PML (onset Jan 2014).  The patient tested positive for the JCV [presumed antibody] (date of test 
not provided). The patient has deteriorated clinically [a lot] and recently had a monitoring scan (MRI) that revealed 
abnormal results (NOS). A lumbar puncture was performed on 25 Jan 2014 and the CSF results are pending.   The
outcome for the event possible PML is unknown. The causality for the event of possible PML is unknown. It is 
unknown if TYSABRI treatment is ongoing.
Update 27 Jan 2014:  Follow-up was provided from the neurologist who stated the patient is in her 30's-40's. She 
has been receiving treatment with TYSABRI for several years. The patient's last [MRI] scan prior to PML suspicion 
was in Jun 2013. The patient has had no prior immunosuppressant use. The patient has had very aggressive 
RRMS (Relapsing Remitting Multiple Sclerosis) for the last few years now with cognitive and mobility impairment 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 390 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
and she has reported to have gone downhill within the last 3 months. The patient's mobility has been impaired to 
the extent she has only been able to walk with the aid of a four wheeled wheelchair (zimmer) over very short 
distances. The patient's mother had called the clinic to report she had to hoist the patient to get out of bed and her 
mobility was further impaired. The patient was then admitted to hospital and a lumbar puncture was performed; 
results are pending. Due to the MRI findings and the deterioration of the patient the neurologist is talking about 
treating the patient with a plasma exchange now rather than waiting for the CSF findings which may take a further 
week. The patient was also pregnant 3 or 4 years ago (refer to pregnancy case 2014BI010003) and stopped 
TYSABRI to get pregnant and re-started therapy right after her pregnancy, as her relapses were bad.
Update 29 Jan 2014:  Follow-up was provided from the neurologist regarding the history and status of the patient 
with suspected PML. It was reported that the patient has received 60 infusions of TYSABRI over the years for
aggressive relapsing MS. The neurologist stated he had a long discussion with the patient and her parents 
(guardians) regarding the side effects of TYSABRI and the risk of PML (this was as recent as Dec 2013); at that 
stage there were no signs of impending PML. It was decided that the benefits of TYSABRI outweighed the risks. 
The patient had a routine monitoring scans requested and a JC virus [antibody] test on 6 Jan 2014; results on 24 
Jan 2014 demonstrated a four-fold rise in JC virus titer. The [MRI] scan was performed on 15 Jan 2014 that was 
abnormal and revealed typical changes of PML. The patient's baseline EDSS was 6.5 however currently it is 7.5 
(specific dates not provided). The neurologist is awaiting the CSF results that were performed on 25 Jan 2014. He 
reported the evidence is suspicious for PML and in retrospect, the patient has clinically deteriorated in the last 6 
weeks but more specifically in the last 2 weeks. The patient's last infusion of TYSABRI was on 6 Jan 2014 and she 
also received a course of oral steroids. The patient's baseline is very poor but now she has significant cognitive 
impairment, requires hoisting for transfer, has a left homonymous hemianopia with an element of neglect.  The 
patient is fluent and not in any distress. The patient will be receiving plasma exchange.
Update 04 Feb 2013: This case was received via the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency; 
MHRA (agency reference number: ADR 22414236-01). No new information was provided.
Update 04 Feb 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist. The (b) (6)  CSF JCV results is still 
pending. The patient completed a course of plasma exchange (prior to CSF results) since she had a 4 - 6 weeks 
deterioration with visual loss, inattention and weakness requiring hoisting (onset unknown). Results of an MRI, 
performed on an unknown date, was interpretated as "typical". On 06 Jan 2013 the JC virus antibody titre 
(previously reported) had shown a four-fold rise (exact units not provided). The event outcome and causality was 
not reported.
Update 18 Feb 2014: The neurologist spontaneously reported that the results of (b) (6)  CSF JCV PCR had 
returned positive. The lesions noted on MRI from 14 Jan 2014 were located in the R fronto parietal area and R 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 391 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
occipital lobe. The neurologist stated that the diagnosis of suspected PML was not in doubt. The patient's current 
clinical condition is stable; she is alert, has cognitive impairment and left sided hemiparesis. The patient is 
undergoing MRI scans every week and there may be some resolution (no dates or results provided). The 
neurologist is expecting the development of IRIS (immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome) so has withheld 
steroids. Causality was not reported. Additional information is expected.
Update 25 Feb 2014: Additional information was received from the neurologist. The patient's clinical condition had 
deteriorated significantly over the past 36 hours. The neurologist suspected IRIS but cannot be certain. The patient 
was unable to tolerate a repeat MRI attempted yesterday (24 Feb 2014).  The patient was treated with 
methylprednisolone (now on day 5); however, despite initial improvement on the steroids he has worsened again.  It
was reported that the patient's systemic markers were satisfactory (NOS). Causality was not reported. Additional 
information is expected.
Update 18 Mar 2014: The neurologist spontaneously reported that the patient is currently at home but badly 
wheelchair bound and requires hoist. Weekly MRI's were performed and the second MRI on an unknown date was 
noted as worse, but no change since No enhancement. A repeat CSF still shows JC virus but at 1/10 level. The 
CSF JCV DNA copy number was confirmed as 1st test = 450 copies (presume in reference to previously reported 
(b) (6)  analysis) and 2nd/repeat CSF test = 45 copies. IRIS was not suspected, as the patient deteriorated on 
steroids (suspected IRIS has therefore been removed as an event from this case). The patient's initials were 
updated. Causality was not reported. Additional information is expected.
Update 03 Apr 2014: Upon internal review, this case was considered to be confirmed for PML based on the positive
CSF, clinical symptoms, and MRI findings.
Update 03 May 2014: The neurologist spontaneously reported that the patient has continued to deteriorate. She 
was noted to be bed bound but opens eyes to command. No voluntary movement of limbs. A repeat MRI on an 
unknown date demonstrates worsening of PML with no evidence of enhancement. A repeat CSF still demonstrated 
JCV PCR positivity. The neurologist stated that he was not convinced there has ever been evidence of IRIS. 
''Course complicated by infections'' (NOS; onset/outcome unknown). No causality was reported.
Update 19 May 2014: This case was received via the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency; 
MHRA (agency reference number: ADR 22414236-006). No new information was provided.
Update 25 Jul 2014: Additional information was received from a physician via a MS Standardized PML Data 
Collection Tool. The patient is alive and is currently in a hospital. She is not on any MS therapy. On 25 Jul 2014, the
physician assessed the patient?s estimated Karnofsky and EDSS scores to be 30 (severely disabled; hospital 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 392 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
admission is indicated although death not imminent) and 9. The most recent MRI was performed on 08 Apr 2014 
(results not reported). An MRI of the head was performed on 06 Feb 2014 with results reported as follows: 
extensive abnormal high T2 signal seen within the white matter of both cerebral hemispheres consistent with the 
given history of multiple sclerosis. There is also extensive progressive multifocal local encephalopathy as on 
previous MRI scans. This predominantly affects both frontal and the right temporal and parietal lobes. No significant
interval change from the previous MRI scan dated 15 Jan 2014. The patient underwent three PLEX sessions (dates
and total volume not provided). No additional lumbar punctures have been performed. The patient has not been 
diagnosed with IRIS and has not recovered from PML. Causality for the event was assessed as related to 
TYSABRI.
Update 08 Aug 2014: This case was received via the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency; 
MHRA (agency reference number: ADR 22414236-007). No new information was provided.
Update 23 Jan 2015: Follow-up information was received from the neurologist. As of (b) (6)  the patient was 
stable with severe disability. She was not able to communicate or respond in an appropriate manner. She could not 
move her arms or legs and remains in a cottage hospital.
Update 09 Feb 2015: Follow up information received from the physician indicated there is no change [in the 
patient's status]. The patient is quadraparetic with an EDSS of 9.
Update 23 Apr 2015: A report was received from literature: Campbell S, Kanodia AK, O?Riordan J. Evolution of 
MRI appearances due to progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy following natalizumab treatment for multiple 
sclerosis. BMJ Case Rep Published online: 15 April 2015 doi:10.1136/ bcr-2015-210305. The authors presented 
the case of a 46-year-old woman who presented in 2007 with visual problems. She had pallor of the left optic disc, 
bilateral internuclear ophthalmoplaegia and an ataxic gait. A series of blood tests were either normal or negative. 
The initial MRI in February 2007 demonstrated some focal white matter changes, including periventricular and 
juxtacortical white matter (images provided). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis demonstrated intrathecal 
oligoclonal IgG. Accordingly, the patient was diagnosed with MS. Following a course of steroids, she was started on
first line disease modifying therapy in the form of glatiramer acetate. Unfortunately, she experienced two further 
severe relapses over the subsequent 10 months and was unable to ambulate. A repeat MRI in December 2007 
demonstrated several new lesions in supratentorial and infratentorial compartments, many of these showing 
enhancement on contrast (images provided). Despite the fact that the patient was JCV positive, her treatment was 
escalated to natalizumab. There was a dramatic stabilization in her MS such that her mobility returned and she only
had minimal residual signs. Follow-up MRI in April 2009 was in keeping with her clinical state, and demonstrated 
reduced size and disappearance of some of the lesions while other lesions were stable. No new lesions were 
present (images provided). Her condition remained stable for the next 2 years. There was, however, a dramatic 
Print Time: 17-MAY-2016 03:39 PM If a field is blank, there is no data for that field Page 393 of 688
FDA - Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) 
FOIA Case Report Information
clinical worsening following cessation of natalizumab because of pregnancy (MCN 2014BI010003); it was 
subsequently restarted on a monthly basis and the patient stabilized once again. Initially she underwent yearly MRIs
for monitoring purposes and her MRI scans were largely stable. An MRI performed in June 2013 showed stable 
appearances in comparison with her scan from 2009 (images provided). At the end of 2013, the frequency of 
imaging was increased to every 6 months and the physician's initiated a process of monthly monitoring of the JCV 
titre to assess preclinical rises. In early 2014, unfortunately, the patient developed a subacute deterioration with 
worsening ataxia, cognitive decline and spasticity. Her MRI in February 2014 showed several large new areas of 
abnormalities in subcortical white matter in the right cerebral hemisphere (images provided). A concomitant 
antibody titre for JCV demonstrated a greater than four-fold rise when compared to a sample from 1 month 
previously. PML was suspected and confirmed on CSF analysis where 496 copies/mL of JCV DNA were detected 
(previously reported as 450 and 45 copies/mL). Natalizumab was discontinued and the patient underwent five 
courses of plasma exchange (previously reported as three courses). Her condition, unfortunately, continued to 
deteriorate. Over the course of 6 weeks her neurological condition deteriorated from being ambulatory 
independently to being bed bound with progressive left-sided weakness associated with an element of inattention. 
She developed frontal release signs and left homonymous hemianopia. An MRI in April 2014 demonstrated 
significant worsening including more confluent and diffuse signal changes in right cerebral hemispheric white 
matter, further changes in deep nuclei and some further changes in left cerebral hemisphere. No contrast 
enhancement was present (images provided). Initially it was felt that she might have had immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome, but her MRIs were never in keeping with this nor were her sequential CSF?JCV DNA 47 
copies/mL 4 months later. Two courses of prolonged steroids were ineffective. She currently remains severely 
disabled with an Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) of 9. The authors concluded by reporting that the serial 
MRI scans have been presented, demonstrating the evolution of appearances from initial presentation of MS to a 
highly deteriorated state with PML. These images demonstrate the effectiveness of MRI in following up such 
patients, emphasize the differences in usual imaging appearances of MS and PML, and reveal the important role 
MRI plays in confirming clinical suspicions that are of critical importance in patient management.